AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Microsoft took control of 99 websites that it said Iranian hackers had used to try to steal sensitive information from targets in the United States, according to court documents unsealed Wednesday.By taking over the sites, Microsoft can stop future cyberattacks and monitor how previously infected computers were compromised, the company said.The hackers “specifically directed” their attacks on people in Washington, Microsoft said in the filing. The hacking group typically has targeted the personal email accounts of people working in both the public and private sectors, including dissidents and workers in government agencies, Microsoft said in court documents.People working in the Treasury Department and similar agencies in other Western governments were among those targeted, according to a person with knowledge of the attacks who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The Treasury Department, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment, oversees economic sanctions against Iran.Microsoft sued the hackers in the United States District Court in Washington and asked to gain control of the sites, saying the hackers had harmed its brand and the value of its trademarks by impersonating its products to trick victims. On March 15, Judge Amy Berman Jackson granted a temporary restraining order that let Microsoft take over the websites.Microsoft said the hacking group, which it calls Phosphorus but is also known as APT 35 and Charming Kitten, had been linked to Iran. The group uses a technique known as spear phishing, sending email and social media links to victims while imitating the personas of people or institutions they may know. That either prompts the users to click on links that install malware that lets the hackers spy on the victims’ computers, or prompts the victims to enter their login credentials, which the hackers then later use to log in to official systems.The Iranian hackers faked the look and language of several Microsoft products, including LinkedIn, OneDrive and Hotmail, Microsoft said in the documents.By seizing the sites, Microsoft set up what is known as a “sinkhole,” which lets it monitor the traffic that otherwise would have been captured by the hackers.“While we’ve used daily security analytics tracking to stop individual Phosphorus attacks and notify impacted customers, the action we executed last week enabled us to take control of websites that are core to its operations,” Tom Burt, a Microsoft security executive, said in a blog post.Microsoft has used this legal and technical approach before, including for fighting the botnets that spit out spam email. It also used the approach against Fancy Bear, a hacking group widely considered to be affiliated with Russian intelligence, which Microsoft said had targeted think tanks and political groups in the United States and Europe.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseThe Pentagon said Wednesday that Amazon and Microsoft were the final candidates for a hotly contested $10 billion contract to bring modern cloud computing to the Defense Department.IBM and Oracle had also bid for the project, known as the joint enterprise defense infrastructure, or JEDI. But the Defense Department concluded that they did not meet the minimum requirements for the program.A Pentagon spokeswoman, Elissa Smith, also said an Amazon employee who had worked on JEDI during a stint at the Defense Department had “no adverse impact on the integrity of the acquisition process.” The department had been investigating a potential conflict in response to a lawsuit brought by Oracle that accused the employee, Deap Ubhi, of having undue influence.The Pentagon had asked the court to pause the case while it investigated, and will now ask the court to lift the stay and proceed. The contract will be awarded in mid-July at the earliest, Ms. Smith said.She also said the Pentagon had come across potential ethical violations by the former employee and referred them to its Office of Inspector General for further investigation. Amazon said Mr. Ubhi declined to comment.The JEDI project is one of the largest federal information technology contracts in history. The Pentagon’s migration to the cloud drew the attention of the biggest tech companies from the moment it was announced in 2017. The contract will go to only one cloud vendor, even though many big companies prefer to work with multiple cloud providers.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe pledge of $500 million to help build affordable housing in Seattle reflects a nationwide void in addressing the problem. By Emily BadgerWith its $500 million pledge to address affordable housing in the Seattle area, Microsoft isn’t primarily cutting checks to local charities. Private companies have done that before. Nor is it proposing to create housing for its own employees, as corporations have done in the past, too.Rather, Microsoft is trying to help fix a market failure — a job government typically does.“It really represents something almost unprecedented,” said Matthew Gordon Lasner, an associate professor of urban studies and planning at Hunter College. “What we’re seeing Microsoft do is in effect privately assume the role that historically the federal government and the states have played.”Microsoft’s announcement is welcome news in the Seattle region, where housing costs have risen faster lately than in any other part of the country. But the fact that a tech company has to step in to help ensure the development of affordable housing points to a long-building reality nationwide: The federal government has largely retreated from this role.The government spent about three times as much on housing programs in the 1970s as it does today, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition. In the years since, the government has gotten out of the business of building public housing. And capital funds to repair the remaining public housing stock have been cut in half over the last 15 years. Over this time, federal resources have increasingly shifted away from subsidizing the construction of affordable housing to subsidizing renters who find housing in the private market. And now most new below-market-rate housing is built not by public agencies, but by nonprofit developers leveraging tax credits. The value of those credits has declined recently as well, as a result of changes in the tax bill passed in 2017.In a sense, Microsoft’s proposal is an extension of this story, as private actors continue to step in where the government once stood.“Our part to play is to bring capital to solve this problem,” Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, said at an event introducing the plan on Thursday. Today in the Seattle region, the problem isn’t simply that government support has dwindled. Construction and land costs to build new housing have risen, and the wages that low-skilled workers can afford to spend on rent have stagnated.“There is no public entity that can fill a hole as big as this,” Mr. Smith said. If the only focus is putting money into public housing, he said, “it will go too slowly and you will end up with housing that may not stand the test of time.”Microsoft says it plans to spend $25 million on grants to local nonprofits working on homelessness. But the bulk of the money will be invested, some in affordable housing developments that use tax credits, and others in middle-class developments that wouldn't be financially feasible without lower-interest loans. As those loans are repaid, Microsoft will lend the capital to other developments as well, in theory leveraging the money to create what Microsoft estimates could be tens of thousands of units of housing, or far more than would be possible if the company simply spent the money directly building apartments itself.Ed Goetz, a professor at the University of Minnesota who has studied the history of public housing in America, said: “I don’t want to diminish the magnitude of what they’re doing. I think it’s important, and it will help. But it won’t solve Seattle’s problem.” Microsoft has called for other companies to become involved. But Mr. Goetz said he couldn’t imagine a situation where there were enough Microsofts out there to truly address the country’s housing crisis.“The federal government is the entity that has the resources to do this,” Mr. Goetz said.Diane Yentel, the president of the National Low Income Housing Coalition, said she would welcome a trend in which more major tech companies put up money to address housing. But she warned of the risk of further letting the government off the hook. “Today’s modern phenomenon of homelessness didn’t exist in the late 1970s because our country housed almost everyone, including the lowest-income and most vulnerable families,” Ms. Yentel said in an email. “The key difference between then and now is declining federal subsidies.”As Microsoft unveiled its plans, the Department of Housing and Urban Development remained largely shuttered in Washington during the government shutdown. Federal contracts with hundreds of property owners who provide housing to subsidized tenants have expired during the shutdown, leaving thousands of families at risk of losing their homes. Activists in communities like Seattle have made a strong case that tech companies bear some responsibility for making the housing crisis worse. Those companies have brought thousands of highly paid workers into housing markets that don’t have room for everyone. But among the many culprits behind the crisis, the government’s retrenchment is critical, too.“This is a problem that is rooted in our political culture,” Mr. Lasner said. “It’s a problem that’s rooted in the myths we tell ourselves about who we are as Americans. We’ve always been skittish and uncomfortable with the idea of housing subsidies, or even interventions like rent control.” Americans are more comfortable with private-sector solutions, he said. But for an area as complicated as housing, he added, “they’re not enough to cope with the challenge.”Karen Weise contributed reporting.Emily Badger writes about cities and urban policy for The Upshot from the Washington bureau. She's particularly interested in housing, transportation and inequality — and how they're all connected. She joined The Times in 2016 from The Washington Post.  @emilymbadger AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — If there are jitters in the economy, Microsoft isn’t feeling them.Microsoft’s quarterly earnings can give indications of whether companies and consumers around the world are cooling their spending, because the business taps into so many markets. Apple reported on Tuesday that its revenue was down in part because consumers are buying new phones less frequently, and the chipmakers NVIDIA and Intel both indicated weakening demand for the components they build for data centers.But on Wednesday, Microsoft showed solid performance across its commercial and consumer businesses, reporting revenue of almost $32.5 billion in the last quarter, and a profit of almost $8.6 billion, both increases of more than 10 percent over the same period a year ago.Microsoft had handily beat analyst expectations recently. In the last quarter, the results fell mostly in line with what investors expected, and shares fell about 2.5 percent in aftermarket trading, wiping out most of the gains made earlier in the day.The company continued its shift to cloud computing, which allows businesses to store and analyze their data in remote centers. Its offering is now widely seen as the strong No. 2 in the market that had once been dominated only by Amazon.Satya Nadella, the company’s chief executive, said in a call with investors that Microsoft was not seeing a slowing in demand. “It’s very healthy and will continue to be healthy.”The company’s consumer products also did well during the holiday season, with a 39 percent increase in sales of Surface tablets and laptops compared with the same quarter in 2017. Sales of its high-margin Windows operating system fell, which the company tied to a continuing shortage in computer chips.The last quarter illustrated Microsoft’s increasing strength. At times, it surpassed Apple and Amazon to become the most valuable company in the world, which was both a sign of its resurgence and the stumbles faced by its peers. The company announced a series of major, multiyear partnerships with large customers that validate a bet by Mr. Nadella to shift the company’s focus to cloud computing and away from personal computers.A few months ago, Microsoft indicated that its rapid global expansion of data centers would moderate this year, but it signaled this was more about making the best use of all its capacity rather than a sign that customers were less interested in cloud-based services.“We think this is cyclicality — you build then you grow, you build then you grow,” said Jennifer Lowe, an analyst who covers the company for UBS.Sales for Azure, Microsoft’s core cloud computing offering, were up 76 percent over the same period last year, the same pace as last quarter. This is a slower growth rate than 2017 and the first half of 2018, but analysts say that mostly reflects how big the business has gotten.“Azure outperformed, so fears of a deceleration in that business are misplaced,” said Brad Reback, an analyst at Stifel.And Microsoft’s overall commercial cloud computing revenue, which includes both Azure and subscriptions to cloud-based Office 365, grew 48 percent, to $9 billion.“They haven’t just changed the product set — they have literally changed the culture, and they are really acting like a cloud platform,” Mr. Reback said. He added that Microsoft uses the constant flow of data passing though its cloud computing services to develop and improve its products and sales more quickly.Microsoft has found success in offering a so-called hybrid cloud offering, in which customers keep some data on their own servers and others in the cloud and manage it all with a single set of tools. Analysts say the company has an advantage over Amazon in that area, because so many large business already use Microsoft tools on their servers.Amy Hood, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, pointed to 24 percent growth in server products and cloud services revenue as an indicator of strength in that business. She said that figure includes pure Azure sales as well as premium traditional server sales that can be managed together. “That gives customers flexibility to decide when to move,” she said.Some customers adopt Azure just for basic cloud computing, but Microsoft is looking for ways to bring technology deeper into how businesses operate, what Mr. Nadella has called embracing “tech intensity.”“The opportunity for our shareholders when they think about Microsoft has never been better,” Mr. Nadella said in a call with analysts. He said Microsoft’s interests align with those of its customers, because the company’s cloud products often bring in revenue from subscriptions and use rather than large upfront costs. “We want to make sure we are in fact making our customers fully capable digital customers in their own right,” he said.Microsoft and Kroger are working to develop cloud-connected physical retail stores, with new products like digital price tags and sensors to track shoppers and show them customized ads. Another partnership, with Walgreens Boots Alliance in the pharmacy sphere, aims to use artificial intelligence to improve health care outcomes.“It’s not just how to get you to buy Windows,” Ms. Lowe said. “Technology is going to get deeper into the guts of how companies operate.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @kyweiseAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressREDMOND, Wash. — Microsoft is revamping its practices for investigating workplace allegations after a group of women shared stories of discrimination and sexual harassment.CEO Satya Nadella sent a letter to employees about the changes Monday.Nadella says the company is increasing support services for workers who say they've experienced misbehavior, including a new "Employee Advocacy Team" to help guide employees through investigations.He says Microsoft will also require inclusivity training for all its roughly 16,000 managers, set new and more consistent disciplinary guidelines and create more transparency about the outcome of investigations.The changes follow a large internal email chain started last month by employees sharing personal stories of experiencing misconduct. That caught the attention of top executives.Nadella's letter to employees was first reported by news site Quartz.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — A group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence targeted civil society groups across Europe ahead of May elections there, Microsoft said on Tuesday.The attacks, disclosed by Microsoft in a blog post, demonstrate the continuing spread of a broad online campaign aimed at disrupting real and potential political opponents of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. The company said it had found that hackers targeted more than 100 email accounts at think tanks and nongovernmental organizations that work on issues including election security, nuclear policy and foreign relations.Microsoft didn’t address what country the attacks came from, but it blamed a group of hackers sometimes called Fancy Bear. Online security companies have identified Fancy Bear as a Russian group, and it is widely believed to be tied to Russian intelligence.Fancy Bear was involved in the 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee in the United States, according to the party and security researchers. Last year, the American authorities indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers related to the hacks of the party headquarters and the Clinton presidential campaign.Russian officials have denied that Moscow had any role in the hacking attempts.Despite scrutiny of groups like Fancy Bear, the attacks have continued. Last year, the same hacking group similarly targeted Republican think tanks that had criticized President Trump before the midterm elections in the United States. Microsoft also detected those as part of its cybersecurity operations.Increasingly the attacks have also targeted groups that are not directly involved in elections but seek to steer debate or focus on specific targets, as both the 2018 attacks and the new attacks disclosed in Europe show.Microsoft said the latest attacks had taken place in advance of the European Parliament elections, which are set for May, “as well as several key national elections.”The company said the attacks occurred between September and December and took the form of spearfishing campaigns. Spearfishing involves sending emails that appear to come from legitimate sources to get users to click the links inside. If a user clicks those links, hackers can install malware, steal passwords or conduct other online mischief.The German Council on Foreign Relations, the European offices of the Aspen Institute and the German Marshall Fund of the United States were among the groups that were targeted and agreed to be disclosed, Microsoft said.In a statement on its website, the German Marshall Fund said groups beyond candidates and their political campaign managers must be increasingly vigilant.“Everything we do as an organization, from our policy research to our work strengthening civil society, is dedicated to advancing and protecting democratic values,” it said. “The announcement serves as a reminder that the assault on these values is real and relentless.”The other groups could not immediately be reached for comment.The targeted research institutes have done work related to issues important to Russian policy and its continuing use of misinformation to influence elections. The German Marshall Fund, for example, has investigated Russia’s use of social media to spread political messages in its favor in various elections in Europe. The German Council on Foreign Relations has published reports related to arms control and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has been at odds with Russia.Microsoft has been tracking the increase in hacking attempts by nation states, including Russians, as part of its Defending Democracy Program, which it announced last year to provide protection to candidates, political parties and nongovernmental organizations working in the field of elections.It said it was expanding its AccountGuard cybersecurity service free to campaigns and nongovernmental organizations that use its Office 365 software in 12 new European markets to protect against these kinds of hacks.A Microsoft executive, Tom Burt, said in the blog post that Europe was the birthplace of democracy, and that “as the ongoing attacks demonstrate, this idea is increasingly under threat.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — The Seattle area, home to both Microsoft and Amazon, is a potent symbol of the affordable housing crisis that has followed the explosive growth of tech hubs. Now Microsoft, arguing that the industry has an interest and responsibility to help people left behind in communities transformed by the boom, is putting up $500 million to help address the problem.Microsoft’s money represents the most ambitious effort by a tech company to directly address the inequality that has spread in areas where the industry is concentrated, particularly on the West Coast. It will fund construction for homes affordable not only to the company’s own non-tech workers, but also for teachers, firefighters and other middle- and low-income residents.Microsoft’s move comes less than a year after Amazon successfully pushed to block a new tax in Seattle that would have made large businesses pay a per-employee tax to fund homeless services and the construction of affordable housing. The company said the tax created a disincentive to create jobs. Microsoft, which is based in nearby Redmond, Wash., and has few employees who work in the city, did not take a position on the tax.The debate about the rapid growth of the tech industry and the inequality that often follows has spilled across the country, particularly as Amazon, with billions of taxpayer subsidies, announced plans to build major campuses in Long Island City, Queens, and Arlington, Va., that would employ a total of at least 50,000 people. In New York, elected officials and residents have raised concerns that Amazon has not made commitments to support affordable housing.Microsoft has been at the vanguard of warning about the potential negative effects of technology, like privacy or the unintended consequences of artificial intelligence. Executives hope the housing efforts will spur other companies to follow its lead.“We believe everybody has a role to play, and everybody needs to play their role,” said Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer.The company’s strong finances, a sign of its resurgence under Satya Nadella as chief executive, have given it resources to deploy, Mr. Smith said. In October, the company reported net income of $8.8 billion in its most recent quarter, up 34 percent, and it had almost $136 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet. The company’s stock has risen steadily under Mr. Nadella, and Microsoft is now valued at over $800 billion.A number of other tech businesses have tried to address the homeless crisis. Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has supported homeless service providers through his personal foundation, and the Salesforce chief executive, Marc Benioff, helped fund a proposition in San Francisco to tax businesses to pay for homeless services. Voters approved the tax in November, rejecting opposition from some tech leaders, including Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.Others plan to build housing for their own employees. Such housing may help with demand, but it has also reinforced the impression that the companies are focused too closely on their own backyards.“This is long-range thinking by a company that has been around for a long time, and plans to be around for a long time,” said Margaret O’Mara, a professor at the University of Washington who studies the history of tech companies.Microsoft began researching the region’s housing last summer, after the nasty tax fight in Seattle and around a peak of the housing market. The company analyzed data and hired a consultant to decide how to focus its work. The area’s home prices have almost doubled in the past eight years, and Mr. Smith said he learned that “the region has counterintuitively done less to build middle-income housing than low-income housing, especially in the suburbs.”That squeeze hits a range of workers. “Of course, we have lots of software engineers, but the reality is that a lot of people work for Microsoft. Cafeteria workers, shuttle drivers,” Mr. Nadella said this week at a meeting with editors at the company’s headquarters. “It is a supply problem, a market failure.”Microsoft plans to lend $225 million at subsidized rates to preserve and build middle-income housing in six cities near its Redmond headquarters. It will put an additional $250 million into low-income housing across the region. Some of those loans may be made through the federal programs that provide tax breaks for low-income housing.The company plans to invest the money within three years, and expects most of it to go to Seattle’s suburbs.The loans could go to private or nonprofit developers, or to governmental groups like the King County Housing Authority. As the loans are repaid, Mr. Smith said, Microsoft plans to lend the money out again to support additional projects.The remaining $25 million will be grants to local organizations that work with the homeless, including legal aid for people fighting eviction. The Seattle Times reported Wednesday that if the $500 million were put into one project, it would create only about 1,000 units, so instead Microsoft will most likely put smaller amounts in many projects to help build “tens of thousands of units.”The initial reaction to the company’s announcement was positive.“There is almost no level of housing that isn’t direly needed,” said Claudia Balducci, a member of the King County Council who helps lead the Regional Affordable Housing Task Force.A report in December by the task force said that the region needs 156,000 more affordable housing units, and will need 88,000 more units by 2040 to accommodate future growth.A growing body of research has tied the lack of affordable housing to increasing homelessness. A December study from the real estate website Zillow said that was particularly true when households pay more than a third of their income in rent. The New York, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle regions — the country’s largest tech hubs — have all already crossed that threshold.“The idea that you can live in your bubble and put your fingers in your ears just doesn’t work anymore,” said Steve Schwartz, head of public affairs at Tableau Software, which is based in Seattle.Amazon in recent years has worked closely with Mary’s Place, a homeless shelter for women and children in Seattle, and is integrating a shelter for about 65 families into one of its new buildings. Amazon has paid tens of millions of dollars to the city’s affordable housing trust fund as fees to build in the core of Seattle.Amazon declined to comment.Google supported the City of Mountain View’s plan to add 10,000 housing units in an area it’s developing, with 20 percent designated for lower-income residents. And Facebook has planned to build 1,500 apartments near its Menlo Park headquarters, with 15 percent to be affordable.Microsoft has begun a major overhaul of its main campus in Redmond, committing billions of dollars in renovations and connecting it to a light rail station under construction. The company helped finance a successful campaign for voters to approve more property taxes to pay for transportation. This new investment in housing takes its commitments a step further.“This is where Microsoft is going to be, and the region needs to work,” Ms. Balducci said. “I don’t think this is wholly altruism.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @kyweise.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Microsoft said its Bing search page was back online in China after being inaccessible for part of this week. It appeared to have been blocked by government censors.Users in parts of China were unable to access Bing on Wednesday and Thursday, and it remained unclear what led to the shutdown.While Bing is not widely used in China, it has been one of the few remaining portals to the broader internet as the government isolates China’s internet from the rest of the world. Bing has survived in part because Microsoft has worked to follow the government’s censorship practices around political topics. It has also cooperated with the government in developing other parts of its business, such as working with a state-run firm that supplies the military to produce a government-approved version of its Windows 10 software.“There are times when there are disagreements, there are times when there are difficult negotiations with the Chinese government, and we’re still waiting to find out what this situation is about,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president, said in an interview with Fox Business Network at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Mr. Smith acknowledged that Microsoft had fewer legal rights in China than in other countries.“There are certain principles that we think it’s important to stand up for,” he said, “and we’ll go at times into the negotiating room and the negotiations are sometimes pretty darn direct.”The company is still investigating the shutdown, he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Amazon.com Inc and Microsoft Corp have been selected to continue competing for Pentagon cloud computing services as part of a contract that could be worth some $10 billion, the U.S. Department of Defense said on Wednesday.The selection leaves Oracle Corp and IBM Corp out of the competition for the contract for the Defense Department's Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure Cloud, or JEDI. The contract is part of a broad modernization of Pentagon information technology systems."I can confirm that AWS (Amazon Web Services) and Microsoft are the companies that met the minimum requirements outlined" in the Request for Proposals, department spokeswoman Elissa Smith said in a statement.The Pentagon said in its request for bidders last year that the contract for cloud computing services could be worth as much as $10 billion over a 10-year period.Amazon Web Services, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle were considered front runners for the contract, according to industry executives. AWS at the time was the only company approved by the government to handle secret and top secret data.Smith said the earliest a contract was likely to be awarded was mid-July, mainly because of the size and complexity of the deal, potential protest litigation and an ongoing investigation.Oracle has expressed concern about the role of a former Amazon employee who worked on the JEDI project until recusing himself, then later left the Defense Department and returned to Amazon Web Services.Smith said a department review of the acquisitions process did uncover potential ethical violations, which have been referred to the Defense Department's inspector general for further investigation.But she said the investigation determined there were "no conflicts of interest that affected the integrity of the acquisition process."  (Reporting by Eric Beech and David Alexander; editing by Grant McCool and Leslie Adler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Amazon.com Inc and Microsoft Corp have been selected to continue competing for Pentagon cloud computing services as part of a contract that could be worth some $10 billion, the U.S. Department of Defense said on Wednesday.The selection leaves Oracle Corp and IBM Corp out of the competition for the contract for the Defense Department's Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure Cloud, or JEDI. The contract is part of a broad modernization of Pentagon information technology systems."I can confirm that AWS (Amazon Web Services) and Microsoft are the companies that met the minimum requirements outlined" in the Request for Proposals, department spokeswoman Elissa Smith said in a statement.The Pentagon said in its request for bidders last year that the contract for cloud computing services could be worth as much as $10 billion over a 10-year period.Amazon Web Services, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle were considered front runners for the contract, according to industry executives. AWS at the time was the only company approved by the government to handle secret and top secret data.Smith said the earliest a contract was likely to be awarded was mid-July, mainly because of the size and complexity of the deal, potential protest litigation and an ongoing investigation.Oracle has expressed concern about the role of a former Amazon employee who worked on the JEDI project until recusing himself, then later left the Defense Department and returned to Amazon Web Services.Smith said a department review of the acquisitions process did uncover potential ethical violations, which have been referred to the Defense Department's inspector general for further investigation.But she said the investigation determined there were "no conflicts of interest that affected the integrity of the acquisition process."  (Reporting by Eric Beech and David Alexander; editing by Grant McCool and Leslie Adler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPALO ALTO — Microsoft Corp recently rejected a California law enforcement agency’s request to install facial recognition technology in officers’ cars and body cameras due to human rights concerns, company President Brad Smith said on Tuesday.Microsoft concluded it would lead to innocent women and minorities being disproportionately held for questioning because the artificial intelligence has been trained on mostly white and male pictures. AI has more cases of mistaken identity with women and minorities, multiple research projects have found.“Anytime they pulled anyone over, they wanted to run a face scan” against a database of suspects, Smith said without naming the agency. After thinking through the uneven impact, “we said this technology is not your answer.”Speaking at a Stanford University conference on “human-centered artificial intelligence,” Smith said Microsoft had also declined a deal to install facial recognition on cameras blanketing the capital city of an unnamed country that the nonprofit Freedom House had deemed not free. Smith said it would have suppressed freedom of assembly there.On the other hand, Microsoft did agree to provide the technology to an American prison, after the company concluded that the environment would be limited and that it would improve safety inside the unnamed institution.Smith explained the decisions as part of a commitment to human rights that he said was increasingly critical as rapid technological advances empower governments to conduct blanket surveillance, deploy autonomous weapons and take other steps that might prove impossible to reverse. Microsoft said in December it would be open about shortcomings in its facial recognition and asked customers to be transparent about how they intended to use it, while stopping short of ruling out sales to police. Smith has called for greater regulation of facial recognition and other uses of artificial intelligence, and he warned Tuesday that without that, companies amassing the most data might win the race to develop the best AI in a “race to the bottom.”He shared the stage with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, who urged tech companies to refrain from building new tools without weighing their impact.“Please embody the human rights approach when you are developing technology,” said Bachelet, a former president of Chile.Microsoft spokesman Frank Shaw declined to name the prospective customers the company turned down.  (Reporting by Joseph Menn; Editing by Greg Mitchell and Lisa Shumaker)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPALO ALTO — Microsoft Corp recently rejected a California law enforcement agency’s request to install facial recognition technology in officers’ cars and body cameras due to human rights concerns, company President Brad Smith said on Tuesday.Microsoft concluded it would lead to innocent women and minorities being disproportionately held for questioning because the artificial intelligence has been trained on mostly white and male pictures. AI has more cases of mistaken identity with women and minorities, multiple research projects have found.“Anytime they pulled anyone over, they wanted to run a face scan” against a database of suspects, Smith said without naming the agency. After thinking through the uneven impact, “we said this technology is not your answer.”Speaking at a Stanford University conference on “human-centered artificial intelligence,” Smith said Microsoft had also declined a deal to install facial recognition on cameras blanketing the capital city of an unnamed country that the nonprofit Freedom House had deemed not free. Smith said it would have suppressed freedom of assembly there.On the other hand, Microsoft did agree to provide the technology to an American prison, after the company concluded that the environment would be limited and that it would improve safety inside the unnamed institution.Smith explained the decisions as part of a commitment to human rights that he said was increasingly critical as rapid technological advances empower governments to conduct blanket surveillance, deploy autonomous weapons and take other steps that might prove impossible to reverse. Microsoft said in December it would be open about shortcomings in its facial recognition and asked customers to be transparent about how they intended to use it, while stopping short of ruling out sales to police. Smith has called for greater regulation of facial recognition and other uses of artificial intelligence, and he warned Tuesday that without that, companies amassing the most data might win the race to develop the best AI in a “race to the bottom.”He shared the stage with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, who urged tech companies to refrain from building new tools without weighing their impact.“Please embody the human rights approach when you are developing technology,” said Bachelet, a former president of Chile.Microsoft spokesman Frank Shaw declined to name the prospective customers the company turned down.  (Reporting by Joseph Menn; Editing by Greg Mitchell and Lisa Shumaker)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBRUSSELS — EU data protection authorities are investigating whether the European Commission and other EU institutions comply with the bloc's strict data privacy rules in their software deals with Microsoft.The 28-country European Union adopted the landmark General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) about a year ago, giving Europeans more control over their online information and privacy enforcers the power to impose hefty fines.The European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS), which monitors the bloc's 70 institutions on their GDPR compliance, launched its investigation on Monday. The probe will look into the Microsoft products and services used by the institutions and whether the contractual agreements between them and the U.S. software company are GDPR-compliant."When relying on third parties to provide services, the EU institutions remain accountable for any data processing carried out on their behalf," said Assistant EDPS Wojciech Wiewiorowski."They also have a duty to ensure that any contractual arrangements respect the new rules and to identify and mitigate any risks," he said.The EDPS can impose fines up to 50,000 euros for each infringement.Microsoft said it was ready to assist its customers in the EDPS investigation."We are committed to helping our customers comply with GDPR, Regulation 2018/1725, and other applicable laws and are confident that our contractual arrangements allow customers to do so," Microsoft said.The EDPS said some of the data protection worries could be similar to Dutch concerns raised in November about the data collected through Microsoft ProPlus, which includes popular software such as Microsoft Word writing software and Microsoft Outlook email.The concern related to information stored in a database in the United States in a way that the Netherlands said posed major risks to users' privacy. The company subsequently made some changes to comply with EU rules. (Reporting by Francesco Guarascio; Editing by Alissa de Carbonnel, Susan Fenton and Frances Kerry)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen GrocerGet the DealBook newsletter to make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.__________Within minutes of the stock market’s opening trades on Tuesday, Apple had reclaimed the title of most valuable American company for the first time in more than two months.By around midday, Microsoft had taken back the top spot. And so the day went, the two tech titans going back and forth, until trading ended with Microsoft the leader at a market value of $823 billion.The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year. The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results. And Alphabet (Google’s parent company) has lurked not far behind the whole time.The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years. Apple passed Exxon Mobil to become the most valuable company in the United States almost eight years ago, and after 2012 it held on, largely unchallenged, for six years.The company’s ascension was a precursor to Big Tech’s takeover of the stock market. Investors scooped up shares of the largest tech companies, believing their sales growth was unassailable, and by the second half of 2016, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, Alphabet and Apple were the five most valuable companies in the S&P 500.But investors’ faith in Big Tech began to weaken last year. Apple fell hard as signs of a mature mobile phone market, a softening global economy and a trade war between China and the United States raised doubts about the company’s ability to sell more iPhones.Nearly $450 billion was wiped off its market value — an amount greater than all but six companies in the S&P 500.Shares of the other tech titans fell as well. But Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet have fared far better than Apple and the broader market over the past year, as bets by the first two — and, to a lesser extent, by Alphabet — on cloud computing drove a surge in revenue.Microsoft and Apple, which has recovered some of its losses since it reported earnings last week, are both valued at a little more than $820 billion. Behind them are Amazon, at $815 billion, and Alphabet, at $797 billion.In fifth place is Warren E. Buffett’s investment conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway. But with a market value of $511 billion, it is far behind.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Paul Mozur and Karen WeiseSHANGHAI — Under China’s president, Xi Jinping, the last vestiges of the global internet have slowly disappeared from an online world that had already shut out Twitter, Google and Facebook.Now one of the last survivors, Microsoft’s Bing search engine, appears to have joined them — even though the American company already censors its results in China.The Chinese government appeared to block the search engine on Wednesday, in what would be a startling renunciation of more than a decade of efforts by Microsoft to engage with Beijing to make its products available. If the block proves to be permanent, it would suggest that Western companies can do little to persuade China to give them access to what has become the world’s largest internet market by users, especially at a time of increased trade and economic tensions with the United States.The Redmond, Wash., company has cooperated with local companies to provide its Windows and cloud services to win acceptance by the Chinese government. Its long-established research and development center has turned out valuable products and launched the careers of a generation of artificial-intelligence experts who have started important new companies in China.Beijing has carried out several waves of increasingly intense crackdowns on internet freedoms as the Communist Party has cemented its control over more aspects of Chinese life. That includes cracking down on foreign internet products, including blocks on Instagram and WhatsApp in recent years.Lately, the Chinese authorities have questioned or detained activists for posting on Twitter, even though the vast majority of people in China can’t access the microblogging service. (The activists generally posted on Twitter via special software that can circumvent China’s censors.)Chinese officials disclose few specifics about their censorship practices, and Bing’s status as of Thursday was not entirely clear. The Cyberspace Administration of China did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In a statement, Microsoft said, “We’ve confirmed that Bing is currently inaccessible in China and are engaged to determine next steps.”Greatfire.org, a group that tracks what sites are blocked in China, said the site appeared to be inaccessible in parts of the country but reachable in others. China’s blockages often take time to spread nationwide, though in the past some services have been blocked in some places only to be restored later.With Bing, Microsoft tried to play by China’s rules. For example, a search for the Dalai Lama, the religious leader, would turn up state media accounts within China that accused him of stirring up hatred and separatism. Outside the country, it would point to sites like Wikipedia.Other searches, like for Tiananmen Square or the Falun Gong religious group, were similarly scrubbed, though over the years users reported that using coded language could help turn up posts about some topics that were generally controlled.Blocking Bing would brick over one of the last holes in a wall of online filters that has isolated China’s internet from the rest of the world. Although not widely used in China, Bing has remained an option of last resort for some in China looking for an alternative to the dominant local search engine, Baidu. While it continues to dominate search traffic in China, Baidu has been at the center of complaints about poor search results and advertisements for questionable medical treatments.Earlier this week, a former journalist, Fang Kecheng, accused Baidu of largely returning search results that were links to its own products instead of those from external sites. The accusation, which Mr. Fang posted on social media with the headline “Baidu the Search Engine is Dead,” went viral in China.Baidu said in a statement that less than 10 percent of its search results included one specific Baidu product that Mr. Fang had singled out, and that its practices of using its own products in search results helped speed up download times.In an interview, Mr. Fang said the Chinese internet was developing into a series of walled gardens, rather than the sprawling forum for ideas that makes online life appealing to many, thanks to censorship and to the rise of big Chinese internet companies like Tencent and Bytedance that dominate the online experience on mobile phones. Blocking Bing would only make it worse.“Bing compromised in order to have a Chinese version to get into the country,” said Mr. Fang, a doctoral candidate at the Annenberg School for Communication at University of Pennsylvania. “It would be pathetic if even this can’t exist. We have one less alternative.”China has long been a difficult market for Microsoft. For years, it struggled to contend with widespread piracy of its Windows and Office software.In July 2014, four of its offices in China were stormed by officials who questioned executives, copied contracts and records and downloaded data from the company’s servers. What was described as an antitrust inquiry was spurred by Microsoft’s decision to end support for older Windows software to encourage users to switch to newer versions that were more difficult to pirate, according to analysts. The withdrawal of support for a still widely used, if dated, version of Windows only underscored the country’s reliance on foreign software.In 2017, to ensure state support for Windows, the company partnered with a state-run firm to produce a government-approved version of its Windows 10 software. The firm, Chinese Electronics Technology Corporation, makes electronics for the Chinese military and is a major vendor of surveillance technology in Xinjiang, where the government has thrown hundreds of thousands of Uighurs, a local Muslim minority, into re-education camps.Beijing has insisted on closer scrutiny of software used by government agencies and companies since Edward Snowden, a former American government consultant, revealed that United States intelligence agencies used American technology for hacking purposes.Despite the difficulties, foreign companies still hold out hope for access to China, which with its size and its thriving mobile phone culture represents a potentially vast market. LinkedIn and Airbnb still have businesses there, though they take pains to comply with local laws. LinkedIn, which Microsoft bought in 2016, censors content in China, and Airbnb coordinates with local authorities to provide access about who is staying at its listings.But trade tensions between China and the United States are only adding to the difficulties. Many American companies, along with Trump administration officials, accuse China of systematically forcing American companies to hand over their intellectual property to local partners or to government officials in the name of national security. So far, China has stopped short of boycotting American products, which could escalate the trade conflict and damage the Chinese economy.Baidu’s falling reputation led to some support among China’s intelligentsia for a re-entry by Google into the market with a censored search engine internally code-named Project Dragonfly. Its plans led to widespread criticism from Google’s own employees. Some Chinese activists also protested, arguing a censored search would be tantamount to complicity with Chinese censorship. Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, has said it is “not close to launching a search product in China.”Mr. Fang, the former journalist, said he had mixed feelings about a Google re-entry, noting that it would be good for Chinese who want a better search engine, but also that it would normalize censorship.“I feel people in the West can say from their point of view that they are totally against Google coming back, as they have nothing to do with China,” he said. “But as someone who truly wishes that Chinese are able to get better-quality information, I can’t 100 percent stand against it.”Paul Mozur reported from Shanghai, and Karen Weise from Seattle. Qiqing Lin contributed research.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCities should treat rising rents like pollution and tax the companies that cause it.By E. Tammy KimMs. Kim is a journalist.On Wednesday, Microsoft announced a commitment of $500 million “to advance affordable housing solutions” in the greater Seattle area. While it was striking for the company to acknowledge how supremely difficult it is for “lower- and middle-income workers to afford to live close to where they work,” 95 percent of its commitment would be in the form of loans to housing developers, much of it for market-rate housing that will benefit more-affluent residents.What is needed in Seattle — as well as San Francisco; Austin, Tex.; New York City; Boulder, Colo.; and other urban areas where the rapid influx of high-paid tech workers has made housing unaffordable for nearly everyone else — isn’t a corporate takeover of housing policy but, rather, a per-employee “head tax” that would fund real investments in affordable housing, which should be a public good.The notion of a head tax isn’t unprecedented, even in Seattle. In May 2018, faced with a crisis of homelessness and housing insecurity, the Seattle City Council levied a fee of $275 per employee on corporations whose annual revenues exceed $20 million — the most conspicuous of which is Amazon. (Microsoft is based in nearby Redmond, Wash.) The tax would have raised a modest but useful sum to build affordable housing units and fund social services. But just weeks later, after Amazon hinted that it might leave Seattle altogether, the Council voted overwhelmingly to reverse its decision.It was a terrible loss for Seattle’s housing advocates, who were hoping for a systemic response to doubling rents, inhumanely fast evictions (Washington State has a three-day notice period) and a rise in the number of families living in their cars. And they were not reassured when, a few months after killing the head tax, Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, announced that he would pay a minimum wage of $15 per hour to all of its United States workers, a boost to low-wage warehouse and cafeteria workers. But in Seattle, where the minimum wage is now $16 for big employers, low wages cannot buy decent housing. The average rent in Seattle was nearly $2,000 in 2017, and nearly half of all renters spent more than 30 percent of their incomes on housing. For many workers, $15 or even $20 an hour, at 40 or 50 hours a week, means couch-surfing. At a deeper level, by rejecting taxation but agreeing to a wage increase, Amazon seemed to imply that corporations, rather than the government, should dictate the terms of redistribution. The same is true of Microsoft’s $500 million pledge: It subordinates public policy to a we-alone-can-fix-it hubris. Rather than becoming landlords, tech giants should pay their fair share. More and more cities are pushing them to do so. In November, voters in San Francisco approved Proposition C, a tax on large businesses that will fund homeless services. Down the peninsula, residents of East Palo Alto, where Amazon recently leased 214,000 square feet of office space for 1,300 new employees, approved a parcel tax on large plots of commercial real estate. In Google’s hometown, Mountain View, 70 percent of voters said yes to a per-employee tax to fund transportation and affordable housing. These California cities are providing the rest of the United States with a template to address the housing crisis: local, targeted taxes on large companies that employ a significant proportion of high earners. Such taxes could be based on square footage, the number of employees or even workers’ salary range, and would apply to any industry — not just tech — that puts pressure on the local housing market by suddenly hiring thousands of highly paid employees. Such measures do not make “businesses, pay a price for creating jobs,” as corporations opposing the Seattle head tax claimed. They are a tax on negative externalities — something akin to a pollution tax. A half-century ago, it seemed inconceivable that factories, smelters or power plants should have to account for the toxins they released into the air. But we have since accepted the idea that businesses should pay the public for the negative externalities they cause. Today, corporations must answer for increased rents and evictions, and for worsening traffic jams. Like air and water pollution, these costs are shared by all of us.Modestly taxing gentrification is unlikely to drive tech companies into suburbia; their employees increasingly prefer the amenities of city life. It’s true that a head tax could make one place less desirable than another — Amazon played off that fear with its implied threat to leave Seattle — but the answer is not for cities to give up billions of dollars in tax incentives. A better approach is for all metropolitan areas that are being transformed by the extremes of corporate wealth to enact redistributive policies focused on housing justice. There are many possible solutions: Across the country, local advocates are pushing for increased housing subsidies, rent-stabilization laws, renter protections to prevent arbitrary eviction, permanently affordable public and private housing, community land trusts, and free legal representation and emergency funds to prevent tenants from being evicted. Some combination of these measures, deployed on a large scale — and funded through corporate taxes — is needed to address what is so clearly a crisis.Call it a head tax or a luxury tax. But recognize what is behind it: the rapid rise of companies employing tens of thousands of high-earning workers has caused, and will continue to cause, displacement. This has happened in the Seattle area and Silicon Valley, and it will soon happen in Long Island City and Northern Virginia, where Amazon will add two new headquarters. Unaffordable rents are not a personal failing or an inevitable outcome of the market; they are a corporate externality as toxic as smog or acid rain.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.E. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets.  AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jason M. BaileyErin Hawley grew up immersed in video games, progressing from Pong on the Atari 2600 to Sonic the Hedgehog on the Sega Genesis to Tomb Raider on the Sony PlayStation.But as the hand-held controllers became more complex and her muscular dystrophy became more debilitating, she was eventually forced to stop playing console games. Even holding a controller is difficult for Ms. Hawley because of the weight, and her hands are unable to reach certain buttons.To support gamers with physical disabilities, an industrious community has for years modified existing controllers or devised new ones altogether. And now those efforts, by organizations like Warfighter Engaged, the AbleGamers Charity and SpecialEffect, have been amplified by Microsoft, which in September released an adaptive controller for the Xbox One.“We tried to figure out a way to accelerate their practices so that they could help more people,” said Bryce Johnson, Microsoft’s inclusive lead for product research and accessibility. “The idea of cracking open a controller for someone who just needs a couple of extra buttons is an arduous task.”That gray rectangle with two red buttons is a gaming relic. Modern controllers require the player to combine a sweeping legato — two analog sticks, one controlling a character’s head and one its feet, are used simultaneously — with the precise staccato of four buttons, two triggers and two bumpers.It can be challenging, and especially so for those with physical disabilities. Some e-sports competitors have operated controllers with their lips and chin, or their cheek and tongue. Ms. Hawley, 35, cannot use her index finger to pull the right trigger on the traditional Xbox controller.Instead she can press an elbow against one of the two four-inch buttons on the adaptive controller, which she tested for Microsoft and which has resurrected a pastime. She now plays games like Mortal Kombat and Kingdom Hearts with her brother and her niece every Sunday.The power of the adaptive controller stems from its 19 3.5-millimeter input jacks and two USB ports, which enable users to plug in peripherals like external switches and buttons. Many players share intel about setups to accommodate specific physical needs.“A lot of my friends, it just changed how they gamed,” said Ms. Hawley, who created the Geeky Gimp website, which examines how the entertainment industry portrays disabilities. “And it’s also changed how they engage in the community.”Powerful and reliable hardware is foundational for the video game industry, which generated an estimated $134.9 billion — the vast majority of its revenue — in software sales last year, according to the analyst group Newzoo.Computer gaming has long had an ethos of customization, and Ms. Hawley turned there during the six years she did not play console games. She can operate a keyboard and mouse, and people without use of their hands can benefit from eye-tracking and voice commands.But console developers design their products for the masses, and people with disabilities had long been overlooked. In 1989, Nintendo released a hands-free controller that players operated with their chins while blowing into and sucking from a tube, but for decades the market was ceded to external creators.It takes Benjamin J. Heckendorn about three hours to create a dozen parts on a 3-D printer and screw them to the bottom of a traditional Xbox controller. The first one-handed controller he built was for a veteran who had lost an arm in the Iraq War; he has sold about 250 since for $350 each, many to customers who have had strokes or been in motorcycle crashes.“Part of the recovery process is doing the normal things in life you love,” Mr. Heckendorn said, “and for an increasing number of people, that’s video games.”The Adroit Switchblade, a $400 black box sprinkled with ports to plug in auxiliary controls, was a precursor to Microsoft’s adaptive controller. “It truly was a person sitting there all day soldering wires together and testing it,” said Mark Barlet, the founder of AbleGamers, which teamed up with Evil Controllers to distribute about 220 Switchblades.Microsoft’s adaptive controller was envisioned at an internal hackathon in 2015, and refined in consultation with nonprofits and hospitals. Its reach was extended by the cost savings of mass production and an advertising budget large enough to air a Super Bowl commercial.Keeping the controller reasonably priced was important to Microsoft, Mr. Johnson said. It costs $100, but maximizing its potential — unlike the traditional $60 controller, it does not come with analog sticks or rumble packs, which vibrate to provide tactile feedback — will require a larger investment. On its website, Microsoft lists third-party attachments ranging from a $20 foot pedal to a $550 mouth-operated joystick.The controller’s versatility, Mr. Johnson said, may also make it attractive to professional gamers who value any technical advantages. And accessibility is expected to become more important to the gaming industry as an aging user base faces more physical limitations, including loss of fine motor skills, vision and hearing.Most games now let players wholly remap controllers so any in-game action, such as reloading a weapon, can be assigned to any physical input. Recent blockbuster titles like Uncharted 4: A Thief’s End and Shadow of the Tomb Raider allow players to navigate using only one of the two analog sticks, and Microsoft has introduced a co-pilot feature that allows two controllers to act as one.The increased commitment to accessibility has benefited people who frequently turn to video games as a respite from the physical demands and social pressures of the real world.“If you’re on the streets, everyone knows you’re a profoundly disabled individual,” Mr. Barlet said. “You can’t hide this fact. But in a video game, you’re a player. We all jump into video games for some level of fantasy.”AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By CHARLIE WARZEL and 
    
STUART A. THOMPSON

APRIL 10, 2019

On June 9, 1999, Google made a pledge to its small but growing number of customers in a blunt 600-word statement. “Google is sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users. The internet allows individuals to explore and communicate with unprecedented ease, but it also allows websites to collect and distribute personal information with equal ease. We at Google know that many users are, understandably, concerned about such practices.”The statement, which today reads like a quaint artifact of a simpler time, would become the company’s first privacy policy — a gently lawyered explanation of how the company collects and distributes its users’ data and information. Google’s was far from the first privacy statement from a big technology business, but it’s one of the first examples of the form from a company that helped lay the foundation for the modern, information-guzzling internet.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what's at stake and what you can do about it.]  And it wasn’t only Google that was “sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users.” All of today’s tech giants have made similar commitments.In 2002, the Microsoft founder Bill Gates declared, “Users should be in control of how their data is used.”Three years later, Facebook, through its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, echoed the statement in a note to its campus user base, “We give you control of your information.”Similar statements from countless technology companies have followed in the years since. Over that time, they have said they would like to protect your privacy ...… even as many companies began to collect and display information invasively.Technology companies have also tried to explain all the ways they protect your privacy ...… but the rhetoric was different from reality, where a number of companies experienced hacks and data breaches.Since the early 2000s, companies have argued that despite all the data they collect, you still own it ...… and yet default designs and settings and lax security have long left information vulnerable.Finally, since the advent of concerns about Google and Facebook’s use of personal data for advertising,  companies have pointed out that they don’t sell your data …… and nonetheless many of the companies' business models are predicated on a targeted advertising model that relies on the continued collection of increasingly personal information.It’s been almost 20 years since Google’s first privacy statement. The internet today is a significantly different place, one that’s largely powered by the transmission and transfer of our personal information. Data breaches — some of vertiginous scale — are common, as is the creeping sense that, in order to log on, we’re forced to submit to being tracked and targeted.But if the modern internet has changed greatly, the statements from the multinational corporations that transformed it have remained strikingly similar. The tech companies and their leaders have been saying we should be in charge of our information for 20 years. So why — now, more than ever — does it feel that we aren’t?Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism. He welcomes your tips and feedback: charlie.warzel@nytimes.com and @cwarzel. Stuart A. Thompson is the graphics director for The New York Times OpinionThe Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.See all Privacy articlesFrom the NewsroomApril 13, 2019See all Privacy articlesAdvertisementcorner officeThe founder and chief executive of Code.org, who was born in Iran, says computer science is a “foundational skill,” one that future doctors, lawyers and politicians should all possess. Hadi Partovi, the founder of Code.org.CreditCreditMatt Edge for The New York TimesSupported byBy David GellesJust how much influence should Silicon Valley have over the classroom? It’s a question roiling educational circles, and one The New York Times explored in a recent series of articles. At the center of the debate are organizations like Code.org, a nonprofit group that advocates computer science training and provides coding curriculum for schools around the country. Founded by Hadi Partovi, an Iranian immigrant who had an enormously successful career in the technology industry, Code.org is backed by companies including Google, Facebook and Microsoft.Mr. Partovi grew up in Iran during the revolution, moving to the United States when he was 11. He attended Harvard, then joined Microsoft, where he worked on Internet Explorer during the browser wars. After leaving Microsoft he founded Tellme Networks, which was acquired by Microsoft for $800 million. He is also an angel investor, and was an early backer of Facebook, Dropbox and Airbnb.Mr. Partovi’s relatives are similarly precocious. His twin brother, Ali, also founded a company that was sold to Microsoft. And his cousins include Dara Khosrowshahi, the chief executive of Uber, as well as senior executives at Intel, Google and Allen & Company, the influential investment bank. This interview, which was condensed and edited for clarity, was conducted in San Francisco. What was your childhood like? When I was 7 and the country was going through a revolution and war, I don’t remember thinking, “Oh my god, I’m suffering hardship.” I had no context. I just was like, “O.K. This sucks. But I can just go on with the day.” I got used to seeing people getting killed and waking up every morning to go to the roof to see which houses near us were still standing or not. Thinking about it now, I’m like, “God, that’s horrible.” Back then, that was just routine.What did your parents do? Both my parents were educated in the United States. My dad had gone to M.I.T. My mom was a computer scientist from Boston University. And we had a whole lot of extended family here.Part of the challenge for me living in Iran was that my entire family, other than my mom and dad and brother, basically had left and fled the country, and we stayed behind. The reason we stayed behind was that my father had started the technology university there, and he said, “The country’s going through all this challenge, but if the education system falls apart, who knows what’s going to happen?”When did you get interested in technology? My dad started teaching us on a programmable calculator when my brother and I were 8 years old. And then the next year, he brought a Commodore 64 home. In Iran at the time, there was nothing fun to do. There was no Xbox, no PlayStation, no internet. We had one TV channel; it was all propaganda. There were no sports in school. So for us, this computer was an escape from just a horrid life situation. It was really the only good thing we had in our life.How did you get out of Iran?To get the permission to leave, my dad had to promise the minister of education that he was coming back — that he wasn’t taking his family to leave forever. He was like, “I give you my word. I’m coming back.” And when we came to America, pretty much the first thing he did was to say, “All right. I’m going back. You guys can stay here.” My mom was like, “What are you talking about? We’re done with that country.” And he said, “I just want to go for one or two years because I gave my word, and then I’ll join you guys.” So we spent a year or two in America with our dad living in Iran, only because he wanted to stay true to his word.Tell me about arriving in the United States.We were not well-off at all. Our family couldn’t afford a home. So all four of us lived in one bedroom in my grandma’s house in one bed, which is an awkward thing to do when you’re 12 years old. My parents worked three jobs, but they put all of the money toward our education. That left an imprint of how important education is. Education is the No. 1 thing you should invest in.You have many relatives who’ve also been successful in the technology industry. How do you explain that? Entrepreneurship is in my family’s blood. My grandfather and all of his brothers started a great company together almost 100 years ago. It was called Alborz Corporation, and it was one of the largest industrial companies in Iran. They started by being a trading company and importing goods, but then all the most popular goods they’d import they’d start manufacturing locally, in partnership with whoever was the original producer. Then the entire company was taken away by the government as part of the revolution. So growing up in America, there was this desire for us to effectively make back the money that our family had lost.After you graduated college you went to work for Microsoft. What did you work on while you were there?The project I’m most proud of is Internet Explorer. Today, Internet Explorer is the dead bastard stepchild of the Web browser market. But I joined that team when it was nine people and two years behind Netscape Navigator in the famous browser wars. It was one of the craziest start-up experiences in a very large company. My proudest creation there was Internet Explorer 5.0 and 5.5. At the time it was a really fantastic product.It’s a bit hard to imagine Microsoft acting like a start-up.The Internet Explorer team was probably the hardest-working team I’ve ever been on. And I’ve been at multiple start-ups. We would have foosball tournaments for the team at 2 a.m., just to get everybody’s energy back up to continue working. Everybody was working every day, every night. One of the team managers had a sign on his door saying, “This is why I’m going home this evening.” And it was a picture that his daughter had made of the family that showed mommy and daddy and son. But, the picture of daddy was a car leaving the garage. There were many divorces and broken families and bad things that came out of that. But what I learned was that even at a 20,000-person company, you can get a team of 50 or 100 people to work like their life depends on it.You’ve gone on to be an angel investor. How do you decide which companies to invest in?I give coding interviews to the chief technology officers of any start-up I invest in. When I met Drew Houston and Arash Ferdowsi from Dropbox, I flew them out to meet in Seattle, and I had them both do coding interviews in my house. I had them take a list of numbers and remove all the duplicates from the list. And the other was to write the code to shuffle a deck of cards. So, relatively simple stuff. I mean, you should be able to do it in 20 minutes if you know what you’re doing. It’s not rocket science.I’m not a coder. Is there one right answer to those questions?No. There’s a little back and forth of seeing how you’re going to go about the problem. And also since these were two that were going to be start-up founders, what are their communication skills like? Because if the C.E.O. just writes the answers and gives it back to you, that’s different than if they walk you through their thinking and explain why they come up with something. When you’re interviewing a potential leader you need to look for both of those things.How did Code.org get started?The moment of inspiration was the day Steve Jobs died. I had wanted to make a video that featured the best technologists talking about the importance of computer science, and I was like, “God. The best of them just died. He can’t be in my video anymore.” That gave me the onus to start Code.org.And why is it so important that kids learn to code? The idea for Code.org isn’t that every kid should learn to code, it’s that every school should teach computer science. We use the word “coding” because it’s more hip. But computer science really is a subject that needs to be taught. And the reason for this isn’t because there’s so many coding jobs or that coding pays well or things like that. The reason is because computer science is foundational. Every school teaches biology, every school teaches chemistry, every school teaches algebra. You wouldn’t envision going to a school that just said, “We don’t teach that.” We’ve done some reporting on the influence that big tech companies are gaining over educational curriculum. Is that appropriate? What Code.org does is focus primarily on foundational learning. And even when we involve our industry donors, we’re very clear with them that what we’re doing isn’t vocational. You can’t take Code.org’s courses and then get a job at Google. But it gets you interested that maybe, hey, I might want to pursue that.There are a few companies that are proactively trying to get their platform into schools or trying to sell their devices into schools and there’s some self-interest there, but the Code.org ecosystem doesn’t have that. Do you think there should be legislation that mandates schools teach computer science?I believe schools should be mandated to teach computer science. You would never send your child to a school that didn’t teach math. In the 21st century, computer science is as important as biology. Understanding photosynthesis or H2O or electricity is just as foundational as understanding how the internet works or what an algorithm is. These things are impacting our daily lives. We need future lawyers and doctors and politicians to all understand it. We’re not trying to prepare kids for jobs. We’re trying to prepare kids for life.David Gelles is the Corner Office columnist and a business reporter. Follow him on LinkedIn and Twitter.  @dgelles AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseOver the past few months, a fierce debate has erupted in Silicon Valley over whether large technology companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft should join forces with the United States military, along with agencies like Immigration and Customs Enforcement.The debate has largely been conducted along ethical lines.On one side are tech executives and many government officials, who argue that at a time when advanced technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning are poised to reshape top issues like drone warfare or border security, American tech giants have a patriotic duty to pitch in.Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, summed up this view last year: “If big tech companies are going to turn their back on the U.S. Department of Defense, this country is going to be in trouble.”On the other side are groups of employees at those companies, including many anti-Trump progressives, who don’t want their tools to be used for drone warfare, immigrant detention and other projects they consider immoral. This side took a stand at Microsoft last month when a group of employees wrote an open letter to the company’s top executives demanding that they abandon an Army contract that would adapt HoloLens, the company’s augmented-reality headsets, for use by soldiers on the battlefield.“We did not sign up to develop weapons, and we demand a say in how our work is used,” the Microsoft employees wrote.This is a debate worth having. But there is a more pragmatic question swirling around it, one surprisingly few people are asking. Namely: Could Big Tech’s decision to pursue controversial defense and law enforcement contracts be a financial mistake?As business deals, some of these contracts seem like no-brainers. Microsoft’s HoloLens deal is worth about $500 million — less than 1 percent of the company’s 2018 revenue, but a meaningful sum nonetheless. Amazon, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle are all battling over a Defense Department cloud-computing contract, known as Project JEDI, that will be worth as much as $10 billion to the winning bidder.But these contracts may be less lucrative than they appear. And, in fact, they could come with enormous hidden costs in the form of damaged reputations, recruiting problems and customer boycotts that could swamp any short-term gains.To explain why, let’s consider one of the most notorious military contracts of the past century.In 1965, Dow Chemical, a Michigan-based chemicals manufacturer, was awarded a $5 million Department of Defense contract to produce napalm, a highly incendiary chemical used by American troops during the Vietnam War.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Lisa TobinShould Big Tech partner with the Pentagon? We examine a cautionary tale.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Across Silicon Valley, tech companies are pursuing contracts with the U.S. military. Kevin Roose on a cautionary tale of where that can lead. It’s Wednesday, March 6.kevin rooseSo I’m a tech columnist. I spend a lot of time talking with and looking at the big tech companies and where they’re going. And one of the most interesting threads that’s come up in the past year or so is this question of how Silicon Valley should engage with the government, and with the military, specifically. And I think we’re at a point right now where the government is saying, we want the things that you’re building. We want you to be part of our modernization efforts.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd within some of these companies there’s a growing divide between the management of the companies and what they want for their business, and some of the people actually building this technology — the engineers who are working on these advanced systems that are in hot demand by the military and other government agencies. And we just saw this play out in a pretty meaningful way at Microsoft.michael barbaroWhat happened there, exactly? So last year Microsoft signed a contract with the Department of Defense to use a technology called HoloLens in the Army.archived recordingGood morning, everyone. A few years ago, we started asking ourselves, could we make things so simple that technology would just disappear?kevin rooseAnd HoloLens was originally developed — it’s kind of like a headset for augmented reality.archived recordingCould we place your digital content right into your world, right into your life, with more reality than ever before?kevin rooseI saw a demo of this a couple years ago, and they were touting it as the next generation of gaming.michael barbaroMm-hmm.archived recordingWelcome to a new era of Windows. Welcome to Windows Holographic.kevin roosePeople were wearing HoloLens, and you would be swinging your imaginary sword at imaginary monsters. But it all looked like it was happening right there in your living room.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd last year, Microsoft signed a contract to develop HoloLens technology for use on the battlefield — to give soldiers the ability to wear these headsets and get information about their surroundings, and to increase the lethality of the soldiers on the battlefield.michael barbaroSo this technology will specifically be deployed within the military so that American soldiers are better at killing the enemy?kevin rooseThat’s the way it’s described in the contract, yes.michael barbaroAnd so, I’m guessing that this was something that Microsoft engineers objected to?archived recordingAnd then there’s Microsoft. They’re receiving backlash from their own employees over new groundbreaking technology.kevin rooseWell, a few of them did. But they did it pretty vocally.archived recordingYeah, so more than 150 Microsoft employees signed a letter demanding that the company cancel a $480 million contract to build a HoloLens for the Pentagon saying they, quote —kevin roose“Dear Satya Nadella and Brad Smith: We are a global coalition of Microsoft workers, and we refuse to create technology for warfare and oppression.” And it goes on. And basically, they argue that this crossed the line into weapons development — that this was basically taking something that they had built, and turned it into something that was designed to help soldiers on the battlefield kill other soldiers.michael barbaroNot what they decided to do.kevin rooseRight. Not their intent, not what they were told they were going to be working on, and not something they were comfortable with.michael barbaroAnd Kevin, thinking about this, it’s hard to imagine that the U.S. military would not use U.S. technology, American-made technology like this, in warfare. That seems inevitable, doesn’t it?kevin rooseWell, right. I mean as long as there has been a U.S. tech industry, there’s been a partnership with the U.S. government and with the military. I mean, the original internet came out of a Defense Department project.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd since then, lots of advances in technology have been spurred by this collaboration between the Pentagon and Silicon Valley. And a lot of these companies already provide technology to the military. I mean, a lot of military computers run Windows’s operating system. But this was a bridge too far for these employees. They say, we’re O.K. basically providing general-use technology, the same stuff that you and I could go and buy. But the specific development of our technology for use in this specific case crosses a line for us, and we don’t want to be a part of it.michael barbaroSo Kevin, what’s interesting to you about this story?kevin rooseWell, I’m interested in the ethical debate around the use of artificial intelligence and other technologies. But I’m also a business reporter. I think this is a decision that is not just being made along ethical lines. These companies are also thinking about their businesses and the amount of money and the profitability of developing these systems for the military. So I wanted to look at it along those lines, as well. Let’s just bracket the ethical discussion for a second and say, does this make financial sense?michael barbaroWell, not just bracket it, right? Isn’t a company often going to make decisions about moral dilemmas based on the implications to their finances?kevin rooseExactly. These are not philanthropies or think tanks. These are for-profit corporations that generally operate on a cost-benefit calculation. And so just on that plane, I wanted to see, does this make sense for them? [MUSIC] And so, I did a little bit of digging, and I went back about 50 years in history, and I found an example of a company that sold something to the military and later came to regret it.michael barbaroWhich was what?kevin rooseIt’s the case of Dow Chemical. In 1965, Dow Chemical is this small, little-known chemicals company based in Michigan. They make lots of different things — household chemicals, agricultural chemicals.archived recordingNow, at your favorite grocery store, the most amazing food wrap ever developed!kevin rooseThey were probably best known for making Saran Wrap.michael barbaroHeard of it.archived recording (speaker 1)Have you tried Saran Wrap? It really is amazing! And look, Saran Wrap clings like magic!archived recording (speaker 2)Saran Wrap is a product of the Dow Chemical Company.archived recording (speaker 3)[JET PLANES AND EXPLOSIONS] Vietnam. United States helicopter gunships backed up ground forces in a strong assault on a Viet Cong position —kevin rooseMeanwhile, the Vietnam War is happening. And in 1965, Dow Chemical wins a contract with the Department of Defense to produce a new chemical called napalm B. And napalm, which is a highly flammable gel that binds and sticks to things and then burns them — had been in use. But napalm B was the new formulation, and the military was very excited in using this in Vietnam.archived recordingTroops followed up the advantage gained by the air support to knock out the V.C.kevin rooseThey thought it had a lot of promise on the battlefield. It was hard to contain and hard to put out. It was a very effective form of weaponry — a very horrible form of weaponry. And it produced very, very bad burns on people. They would basically be burned alive. And so, there’s not much noise about this for the first little while. And then Americans start seeing images from the Vietnam War. And for a lot of people, this is their first time seeing the effects of napalm.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseMost famously, there’s this photograph — you’ve probably seen it. It won the Pulitzer Prize. It is a photograph of a 9-year-old girl who’s been badly burned by a napalm weapon.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)So far we may have killed a million of them, mostly children.kevin rooseAnd it sort of shocks the American public, and it galvanizes the anti-war movement.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)What do they think as we test out our latest weapons on them, just as the Germans tested out new medicine and new tortures in the concentration camps of Europe?archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING] No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm!kevin rooseAnd they decide to go after the use of napalm by U.S. armed forces. And the way that they do that is by going after Dow Chemical.archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING]archived recording (speaker 1)This is Monday afternoon, November 20, on the San Jose State college campus. What you’re watching is the result of a demonstration that began about an hour ago.kevin rooseThey staged demonstrations outside the company’s headquarters, and they go to dozens of colleges where Dow was recruiting students to come work for them.michael barbaroHm.archived recordingThe professors against the war and the Students for a Democratic Society had marched in front of the administration building to protest the recruitment on this campus by Dow Chemical Company of employees.kevin rooseAnd they protest the recruiting sessions. They have signs like “Dow deforms children,” “Dow deals death.”archived recordingThey’re not allowing anyone in. Like, the only people they’re allowing in are those people that are connected with Dow. [PROTESTERS SHOUTING]kevin rooseMy favorite story from this period is that the Dow recruiters — the people that would go to campus to talk to the students — they would get locked up in classrooms. They would get, like, held hostage by the activists. And at one point, one of the recruiters got so used to this that he started bringing a sandwich in his briefcase, so that if the inevitable happened and he got locked in a room with a bunch of angry protesters —michael barbaroHe would survive the day.kevin rooseHe would at least have lunch.michael barbaroSo this sounds like a complete corporate nightmare — that your company is so associated with war and with death, and not with the household product that you make — Saran Wrap.kevin rooseRight. And Dow was particularly offended by this because napalm was a very small part of its business. I mean, it accounted, I think, for a half of 1 percent of its annual sales. And yet it had sort of come to take over its corporate identity. So there was some internal discussion, there were some debates within the company and at the board level about what to do, whether to stop manufacturing napalm. And there were lots of reasons for that. I mean, there were customer boycotts. They did take a financial hit. And they had to do a lot to counter their corporate reputation as a warmonger. But what they really worried about was recruiting. They worried that on these visits to college campuses they weren’t going to get the best people. They weren’t going to get the scientists and the engineers who would help them in the years ahead. And as a result, they would have long-term costs, not just financial, but also in terms of what they were missing out on.michael barbaroThe future employee with moral objections to napalm, who doesn’t come work at Dow Chemical and make the next blockbuster product.kevin rooseRight. But ultimately, they decided to stand their ground. They said, we have a duty to produce napalm for the U.S. government. It’s our patriotic obligation, and we can withstand the controversy.michael barbaroDow Chemical feels like such an extreme case, and it feels quite different from what’s going on with these tech companies today.kevin rooseYeah, absolutely. These are not totally comparable. I mean, the Vietnam War, at this point, was extremely unpopular. You had these horrific images coming back. There’s no good use for napalm, right? There’s no pro-social, healthy use for napalm. It’s a weapon. Whereas a lot of these technologies — A.I., facial recognition, image recognition, augmented reality — these can all be used for very productive and healthy things. It’s only when you put them into a certain context that they can be used for harm.michael barbaroAnd that would seem to be the case for most tech companies, right? They are developing products not explicitly for the military. They just happen to be used that way.kevin rooseExactly.archived recordingArtificial intelligence, drones, warfare and Google — it’s a mixture that caused an uproar inside the tech giant, where the early motto was “Don’t be evil.”kevin rooseThere was a big controversy at Google last year, about this military contract known as Project Maven.archived recordingGoogle is developing artificial intelligence to analyze drone video data.kevin rooseAnd this was a Defense Department program that basically used A.I. and image-recognition technology to interpret video images.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseSo the same kind of A.I. that Google would use in Google Photos, or in its self-driving car unit to recognize images out on the road —archived recordingIt would apparently be used as part of a drone program.kevin roose— could be used to, for example, improve the targeting of drone strikes to make drone strikes more accurate, to be able to recognize certain people or certain buildings and be able to direct a drone at that target specifically.michael barbaroAgain, not what Google engineers probably ever thought the technology would be used for.kevin rooseExactly, I mean, they didn’t sign up for that. And some of them didn’t even know that this was happening.archived recordingThousands of Google workers now protesting Google’s involvement in a Pentagon drone program.kevin rooseSo there was a big uproar. There was lots of heated internal meetings.archived recordingAt least 10, maybe 12 employees did resign.kevin rooseSome resignations —michael barbaroWow. People quit the company over it.kevin rooseYeah, people quit the company over it.archived recordingMeantime, thousands of Google employees have signed a letter protesting the company’s participation in an artificial intelligence project by the Pentagon.kevin rooseThere was a petition that was signed by thousands of Google employees.archived recordingQuote, “We believe that Google should not be in the business of war. Therefore we asked that Project Maven be canceled.”kevin rooseCalling for the company to not only not enter into this contract, but to stop making tools of weaponry altogether. And ultimately —archived recordingTech giant Google will end a project with the Pentagon.kevin rooseGoogle bowed to the pressure. They pulled the contract. They said they wouldn’t renew it. They put out a statement saying, we’ll still work with the military on other projects, but we’re not going to manufacture weapons and weapons-related technology. And that seemed to quiet the unrest. [MUSIC]michael barbaroI feel like people would be surprised that a huge tech company like Google would back down like that.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, it does speak to the difference between a conventional contractor like Dow Chemical and these tech companies. I think there are three main differences there. The first is that these companies are beloved. They have loyal followings and they don’t want to do anything to upset that. The second is that these companies are very idealistic. And in Silicon Valley, this is a big deal. Companies market themselves not just as profitable enterprises, but as humanitarian projects. And anything that compromises that hurts them.michael barbaroRight. World-changers.kevin rooseTotally. And I think the biggest difference is that employees at these companies — especially the engineers who work on very specialized projects like A.I. development — have a ton of leverage, because there are not very many of them, they make a ton of money, and they’re really hard to recruit. If a couple of chemical engineers walk out of Dow Chemical in protest, they can probably find some more where that came from. But if hundreds or thousands of A.I. engineers are upset about a project that Google is working on, that’s a real threat to their business. It doesn’t take many people staging a protest, or threatening to walk out to really get the attention of senior leadership.michael barbaroSo these three differences that you just laid out explain why Dow didn’t back down, despite images of dying children affected by their products, whereas Google did back down, long, long before anything like that happened to it.kevin rooseRight. And I want to be clear: What happened at Google was the exception, not the rule. This is not happening in any vast quantity across the tech industry. At Microsoft, for example, they came right out and said, we appreciate the objections of this small group of employees. They can move elsewhere in the company if they want, but we’re committed to seeing this contract through. And they’ve defended themselves by saying, we have a patriotic duty to provide technology to the military. We think that we can advocate for the ethical use of technologies like AI if we’re at the table in these discussions. And they say that basically, these technologies could be good. These could save lives on the battlefield. The army has said it wants to use HoloLens not just for combat training, but for things like measuring vital signs, and monitoring soldiers for concussions, and having some sort of hearing protection on people’s ears. So those are the kinds of arguments they’re making to justify staying in these contracts.michael barbaroSo the argument here being that engineers who came to these companies to do good, having their technology used by the military does not necessarily mean not doing good.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, that’s one of the arguments that they’re making, is that, basically, if the U.S. military doesn’t have the best technology available on the market, our adversaries will, and we will be endangered as a result.michael barbaroI guess the question is, do the engineers buy that argument?kevin rooseWell, some of them probably do. But as we’ve seen, a number of them don’t. [MUSIC]michael barbaroSo Kevin, we started by talking about this intersection of the moral and the financial as these tech companies navigate this question of, should they work with the military? What’s your understanding in Silicon Valley about how these companies are thinking about that?kevin rooseSo I think a lot of these companies have really shifted their view on this in the last couple of years. A lot of Silicon Valley companies used to just think of themselves as toolmakers, right? We build this stuff, and we put it out into the world, and people use it. And our responsibility, basically, stops at the moment of sale.archived recording (mark zuckerberg)To me, entrepreneurship is about creating change, not just creating companies.kevin rooseAnd now, I think we’re seeing that these companies are being held responsible by the public and by their own employees, not just for the tools they’re building, but for how they’re being used in the world. And this is not just about the military.archived recordingAt this hour some 300 programmers are threatening to leave Microsoft unless the tech giant drops its contract with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE.kevin rooseI mean, also, companies are being scrutinized for working with ICE or working with law enforcement.archived recordingAn Amazon worker is pushing the company to stop selling facial recognition technology to law enforcement.kevin rooseSocial media companies are being held responsible for bad things that happen on their platforms.archived recordingFacebook defending Alex Jones this morning, saying the platform will continue to allow the video blogger to run video on its site, even as it claims to crack down on fake news.kevin rooseThis is really happening across technology. And as technology embeds itself into every part of our lives, we’re seeing that these companies are having to make new kinds of decisions. It’s not just a dollars-and-cents profit-and-loss calculation anymore. They also have to consider what might happen out in the world once they release these technologies.michael barbaroWhich is another way of saying that the morality element of this is now playing a much bigger role than it has in the past, and perhaps is not beating out financial, but rivaling it?kevin rooseIt’s certainly part of the discussion now in a way it hasn’t been before. It’s not just about how much money we’ll make, or how many resources it will take. It’s about what we’re building, and why we’re building it, and who we’re selling it to. [MUSIC]michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you for having me.Dow was not known as a defense contractor — in fact, until its Pentagon contract, the business was best known for making industrial chemicals and household plastics like Saran Wrap.But over the next few years, as Americans began seeing gruesome images of South Vietnamese children with horrific napalm burns, the antiwar movement set its sights on the company.Activists boycotted Dow Chemical’s products, staged protests at its recruiting events on college campuses and barraged its executives with accusations of unethical war profiteering. (One demonstration outside the company’s annual shareholder meeting featured signs like “Dow Know-How in Every Drop of Napalm.”) Dow Chemical executives dug in their heels. They claimed that napalm was a small part of the company’s overall business, and that it was the company’s duty to provide necessary materials to the military.But the company’s pleas of patriotism were drowned out by the antiwar opposition. As Robert M. Neer explains in his book “Napalm,” Dow Chemical’s reputation plummeted as a result of its napalm contract. Its recruiting ability suffered, and its marketing department was forced to embark on a long and expensive campaign to win back the public’s trust.“We went from being a company that made Saran Wrap to keep food fresh to a kind of war machine,” the company’s former chief executive Andrew Liveris said in 2006.Dow Chemical stopped making napalm for the military in 1969, just four years after it had begun. But the reputational damage haunted the company for decades. (Dow Chemical merged with DuPont in 2017; the company is still a defense contractor, but it produces mainly agricultural and industrial chemicals.)All told, the $5 million napalm contract most likely cost Dow Chemical billions of dollars. And it was the kind of unforced error that could have been avoided if company executives had listened to early signs of opposition, done some risk analysis and changed course.Today’s biggest tech companies are in a similar spot. Many of them, such as Amazon and Microsoft, are among the most beloved brands in the world. They employ lots of conscientious, idealistic engineers whose skills are highly valuable, giving them considerable leverage in discussions about company values. And they are operating in an era of heightened consumer sensitivity — in which one misstep can tarnish a brand for years.Tech companies aren’t making anything as obviously harmful as napalm. In fact, supporters of these deals argue that some of the technologies being offered to the military, such as image-recognition algorithms that can help better target drone strikes, could save civilian lives.But the truth is that tech companies have absolutely no idea how the government will use their products in the future — and how the political landscape might shift, throwing them into an unwanted spotlight.In some ways, Silicon Valley tech companies face the same choice Dow Chemical faced in 1965: Accept controversial government contracts and risk a damaging backlash, or leave those deals to conventional defense contractors and protect their reputations.Already, there are signs of trouble on the horizon. At Stanford, fliers recently appeared on campus walls urging students not to work for Amazon, Microsoft, Palantir and other companies with reported contracts with ICE and law enforcement agencies. And artificial intelligence experts caution that the stigma of being seen as a war profiteer could repel idealistic recruits for years to come.“Top A.I. talent doesn’t want to work for Lockheed Martin,” said Jack Clark, the policy director of OpenAI, a nonprofit artificial intelligence lab.In fact, in today’s corporate operating environment, turning down controversial military and government contracts could be a selling point.Recently, I talked with Rana el Kaliouby, a co-founder of Affectiva, an “artificial emotional intelligence” start-up. Ms. el Kaliouby, whose software uses A.I. to track human emotions, had several early offers from government agencies, including a venture fund backed by the Central Intelligence Agency, that wanted to use the product to improve their surveillance capabilities.Even though the company needed the money at the time, it turned down the deals. Affectiva has since raised more than $50 million from other, nongovernmental sources, and has made ethical A.I. use a core part of its brand.“We wanted to be trusted,” Ms. el Kaliouby said. “We used the core value of integrity and respecting people’s privacy as a way to weed out use cases.”Take note, tech giants. Turning down controversial military and government contracts won’t doom your business. In fact, in the long run, your shareholders might thank you.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookOpinionMargaret O’MaraAdvertisement
MARCH 10, 2019
Internet cables in service by 2021
By ADAM SATARIANO Graphics by KARL RUSSELL, TROY GRIGGS and BLACKI MIGLIOZZI  Photographs by CHANG W. LEE
The internet consists of tiny bits of code that move around the world, traveling along wires as thin as a strand of hair strung across the ocean floor. The data zips from New York to Sydney, from Hong Kong to London, in the time it takes you to read this word.Nearly 750,000 miles of cable already connect the continents to support our insatiable demand for communication and entertainment. Companies have typically pooled their resources to collaborate on undersea cable projects, like a freeway for them all to share.But now Google is going its own way, in a first-of-its-kind project connecting the United States to Chile, home to the company’s largest data center in Latin America.“People think that data is in the cloud, but it’s not,” said Jayne Stowell, who oversees construction of Google’s undersea cable projects. “It’s in the ocean.”Getting it there is an exacting and time-intensive process. A 456-foot ship named Durable will eventually deliver the cable to sea. But first, the cable is assembled inside a sprawling factory a few hundred yards away, in Newington, N.H. The factory, owned by the company SubCom, is filled with specialized machinery used to maintain tension in the wire and encase it in protective skin.The cables begin as a cluster of strands of tiny threads of glass fibers. Lasers propel data down the threads at nearly the speed of light, using fiber-optic technology. After reaching land and connecting with an existing network, the data needed to read an email or open a web page makes its way onto a person’s device.While most of us now largely experience the internet through Wi-Fi and phone data plans, those systems eventually link up with physical cables that swiftly carry the information across continents or across oceans.In the manufacturing process, the cables move through high-speed mills the size of jet engines, wrapping the wire in a copper casing that carries electricity across the line to keep the data moving. Depending on where the cable will be located, plastic, steel and tar are added later to help it withstand unpredictable ocean environments. When finished, the cables will end up the size of a thick garden hose.A year of planning goes into charting a cable route that avoids underwater hazards, but the cables still have to withstand heavy currents, rock slides, earthquakes and interference from fishing trawlers. Each cable is expected to last up to 25 years.A conveyor that staff members call “the Cable Highway” moves the cable directly into Durable, docked in the Piscataqua River. The ship will carry over 4,000 miles of cable weighing about 3,500 metric tons when fully loaded.Inside the ship, workers spool the cable into cavernous tanks. One person walks the cable swiftly in a circle, as if laying out a massive garden hose, while others lie down to hold it in place to ensure it doesn’t snag or knot. Even with teams working around the clock, it takes about four weeks before the ship is loaded up with enough cable to hit the open sea.The first trans-Atlantic cable was completed in 1858 to connect the United States and Britain. Queen Victoria commemorated the occasion with a message to President James Buchanan that took 16 hours to transmit.While new wireless and satellite technologies have been invented in the decades since, cables remain the fastest, most efficient and least expensive way to send information across the ocean. And it is still far from cheap: Google would not disclose the cost of its project to Chile, but experts say subsea projects cost up to $350 million, depending on the length of the cable.In the modern era, telecommunications companies laid most of the cable, but over the past decade American tech giants started taking more control. Google has backed at least 14 cables globally. Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft have invested in others, connecting data centers in North America, South America, Asia, Europe and Africa, according to TeleGeography, a research firm.Countries view the undersea cables as critical infrastructure and the projects have been flash points in geopolitical disputes. Last year, Australia stepped in to block the Chinese technology giant Huawei from building a cable connecting Australia to the Solomon Islands, for fear it would give the Chinese government an entry point into its networks.Content providers like Microsoft, Google, Facebook and Amazon now own or lease more than half of the undersea bandwidthShare of used internationalundersea cable bandwidth100%OthersInternetbackbone50%Contentproviders0’02’06’10’14’18100%OthersInternetbackboneShare of used internationalundersea cable bandwidth50%Contentproviders0’02’06’10’14’18Yann Durieux, a ship captain, said one of his most important responsibilities was keeping morale up among his crew during the weeks at sea. Building the infrastructure of our digital world is a labor-intensive job.With 53 bedrooms and 60 bathrooms, the Durable can hold up to 80 crew members. The team splits into two 12-hour shifts. Signs warn to be quiet in the hallways because somebody is always sleeping.The ship will carry enough supplies to last at least 60 days: roughly 200 loaves of bread, 100 gallons of milk, 500 cartons of a dozen eggs, 800 pounds of beef, 1,200 pounds of chicken and 1,800 pounds of rice. There are also 300 rolls of paper towels, 500 rolls of toilet paper, 700 bars of soap and almost 600 pounds of laundry detergent. No alcohol is allowed on board.“I still get seasick,” said Walt Oswald, a technician who has been laying cables on ships for 20 years. He sticks a small patch behind his ear to hold back the nausea. “It’s not for everybody.”Poor weather is inevitable. Swells reach up to 20 feet, occasionally requiring the ship captain to order the subsea cable to be cut so the ship can seek safer waters. When conditions improve, the ship returns, retrieving the cut cable that has been left attached to a floating buoy, then splicing it back together before continuing.Work on board is slow and plodding. The ship, at sea for months at a time, moves about six miles per hour, as the cables are pulled from the giant basins out through openings at the back of the ship. Closer to shore, where there’s more risk of damage, an underwater plow is used to bury the cable in the sea floor.The Durable crew doesn’t expect the work to slow down anytime soon.After the Latin America project, Google plans to build a new cable running from Virginia to France, set to be done by 2020. The company has 13 data centers open around the world, with eight more under construction — all needed to power the trillions of Google searches made each year and the more than 400 hours of video uploaded to YouTube each minute.“It really is management of a very complex multidimensional chess board,” said Ms. Stowell of Google, who wears an undersea cable as a necklace.Demand for undersea cables will only grow as more businesses rely on cloud computing services. And technology expected around the corner, like more powerful artificial intelligence and driverless cars, will all require fast data speeds as well. Areas that didn’t have internet are now getting access, with the United Nations reporting that for the first time more than half the global population is now online.“This is a huge part of the infrastructure that’s making that happen,” said Debbie Brask, the vice president at SubCom, who is managing the Google project. “All of that data is going in the undersea cables.”Note: Cables shown in the map are ones that are currently in use, planned or being constructed. They do not show cables that were decommissioned. The content providers comprise cables publicly announced that Facebook, Google, Microsoft or Amazon partly own, solely own or are a major capacity buyer of a cable owned by another company. | Source: TeleGeography

      By ADAM SATARIANO, 
    
KARL RUSSELL, 
    
TROY GRIGGS, 
    
BLACKI MIGLIOZZI and 
    
CHANG W. LEE

An earlier version of a footnote with a map associated with this article misstated which companies own undersea cables or rely heavily on them. The companies include Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft; they do not include Apple and Netflix.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseAUSTIN, Tex. — Among the techies who attended the annual South by Southwest Interactive conference the past few days, the hottest topic of conversation — besides the swarms of drunken idiots careening around Austin on rented electric scooters — was Senator Elizabeth Warren’s ground-shaking proposal to break up large tech companies like Amazon, Google and Facebook.In her proposal, which she released on the eve of the conference, Ms. Warren argued that these companies have abused their power and harmed competition in two big ways.The first is by offering their own products on platforms they control: Amazon giving preferential treatment to its house brands, or Apple promoting its own apps inside the iOS App Store. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat and presidential candidate, argues that the companies should be required to do one or the other — sell their own goods or run a third-party marketplace — but not both.“You can be an umpire or you can own teams,” she said. “But you can’t be an umpire and own one of the teams that’s in the game.”Ms. Warren also argues that by acquiring potential competitors, as in Facebook’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp, large tech companies have made it harder for smaller start-ups to compete on fair terms. She proposes appointing regulators who would undo such mergers, and break up the conglomerates.Regulating big tech is quickly becoming a central theme of the 2020 presidential race. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and others have also talked about the need to rein in the tech giants. And Ms. Warren has demonstrated more technology literacy than most elected officials.But many of the tech-industry insiders I spoke with in Austin, including some who agree with Ms. Warren that the big companies are too powerful, cautioned that some of the details in her proposal were too vague, and could backfire if put into effect as written.Ms. Warren’s plan is a bold first stab at reform, and some of her proposals make a lot of sense. But I’d offer a few edits.Apply specific fixes to specific problems. One shortcoming in Ms. Warren’s plan — and it’s an understandable one, given that this is a campaign proposal and not a final set of rules — is that it proposes broad solutions to narrow problems.Lawmakers don’t typically craft regulations for individual companies. That’s for good reason: A law that specifically targeted Amazon, and not its competitors, would be seen as creating an unfair double standard.Instead, Ms. Warren’s proposal targets technology companies with more than $25 billion in annual revenue that operate third-party marketplaces — a group that includes Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google — and proposes a set of rules that apply to all of them, as well as any companies that meet the threshold in the future. (Microsoft, which makes more than $25 billion in annual revenue and has a third-party marketplace in the form of the Windows app store, was somehow spared.)The problem with applying a one-size-fits-four model to tech, as the industry analyst Ben Thompson has written, is that the large tech companies have different business models that pose different anti-competitive risks. The stranglehold that Google and Facebook have on the digital advertising market is different from the way Amazon muscles out e-commerce brands, which is different from the way Apple uses its App Store to force burdensome terms on developers.The possibility of unintended consequences means that tailoring regulations to address each of these problems is important. A law that banned Amazon from competing with third-party sellers on its platform could also cripple Chromebook laptops, or prevent iPhone users from getting access to their iTunes libraries.Rather than one giant package that crams everything together, a set of effective tech regulations would treat each problem discretely, and address each with surgical precision.Split off cloud businesses. Ms. Warren proposes having big tech companies split off significant chunks of their businesses, like separating Google’s ad operations from its search engine. But she does not mention one of the clearest examples of oligopolistic behavior in the tech industry: cloud computing.Right now, much of the internet is powered by infrastructure owned by a small number of giant tech companies that include Amazon, Microsoft and Google. These companies make a killing by renting out data storage, computing power and other essential services to other businesses, essentially selling the picks and shovels of the digital gold rush.The cloud-computing market may not seem like an obvious antitrust target. It is highly competitive, and years of price wars between the giants have driven the costs of these services down. Doesn’t giving young start-ups the ability to rent world-class infrastructure make it easier, not harder, for them to compete?Yes, it does. But the concentration of critical infrastructure among so few companies — each of which also operates enormous consumer-internet businesses of its own — gives those companies enormous power, and invites anti-competitive abuse.For example, let’s imagine that Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, decided to sabotage Netflix, which runs on Amazon Web Services, Amazon’s cloud-computing unit, in order to help his company’s streaming video service. He could theoretically tell the Amazon Web Services team to slow Netflix’s traffic, or analyze its usage patterns to determine which Netflix shows Amazon’s streaming-video team should copy.To be clear, Mr. Bezos is extremely unlikely to do that, given that it would be a scandalous violation of Amazon’s privacy policies and would cost the company a lucrative customer. But the reality that companies with dominant internet services also provide the infrastructure that powers much of the consumer internet is a clear example of the kind of market consolidation Ms. Warren is trying to address.An effective breakup proposal could require companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft to spin their cloud-computing divisions off into stand-alone businesses, in a manner similar to the one Ms. Warren proposed for breaking up e-commerce marketplaces. To adapt her baseball analogy, tech companies would either play on the team or own the stadium, but not both.Get rid of the “app tax.” Another easy, specific fix would be to stop Apple and Google, the makers of the two dominant mobile operating systems, from taking unfair advantage of mobile app developers.At the moment, any company that wants to sell in-app purchases or subscriptions through an iOS app must pay what software developers derisively call the “Apple tax”: a fee of 15 to 30 percent that Apple skims off the top of in-app purchases and subscriptions bought by users. (Google’s mobile app store charges similar fees.)These fees add up quickly. Before it removed in-app subscriptions last year, Netflix was paying Apple an estimated $700,000 a day for the privilege of selling subscriptions in its app. And some competitors have begun to complain that these platforms’ strict developer policies amount to bullying. On Wednesday, Spotify filed a complaint with the European Commission over Apple’s App Store policies, arguing that they unfairly stifle competition.Apple and Google would argue that their fees are justified, because operating an app store requires hiring reviewers and security teams and all kinds of other expenses. But these companies have monopoly control of their own mobile universes, and they have used that power to set up virtual tollbooths that suck billions of dollars a year out of the pockets of smaller competitors.Don’t get lured into a censorship debate. Something bizarre happened on Monday when Facebook momentarily took down several of Ms. Warren’s Facebook ads promoting her proposal to break up big tech. Ms. Warren seized on the episode, saying it was proof of Facebook’s ability to “shut down a debate” over its power.The ads were quickly reinstated, and Facebook made it clear that the removal was not a case of politically motivated censorship. The company has a longstanding policy that limits the use of Facebook’s name in ads, a measure that is mostly meant to prevent sketchy advertisers from claiming falsely to be “Facebook’s official quiz game” or whatever.But the idea that Facebook would censor one of its prominent critics was irresistible to politicians, including Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and other conservative lawmakers who have spent the past several years complaining that social media platforms are engaging in partisan censorship.“She’s right — Big Tech has way too much power to silence Free Speech,” Mr. Cruz wrote of Ms. Warren in a message on Twitter.One problem with the debate over the tech companies’ power is that it risks conflating real anti-competitive behavior (like Facebook’s shutting off data access to competitors) with imaginary abuses (like Mr. Cruz’s unsupported claims that social media platforms are biased against conservatives). The former is a real menace; the latter is a bad-faith attempt to work the refs and preserve a partisan advantage. But in political discourse, both can be framed as proof of the need for “neutral platforms.”The best advice I could possibly give Ms. Warren, or any other Democrat hoping to bring big tech to heel, is to focus squarely on competition, and to avoid being sucked into partisan debates about content censorship.The worst outcome of a push to regulate big tech companies would be a set of rules that made it easier for people to exploit these companies’ power, while leaving their fortresses intact.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matt PhillipsThe stock market’s strong start to the year stalled on Tuesday, amid growing pessimism about the prospects for a deal to defuse trade tensions between China and the United States.The S&P 500, which had enjoyed its best start to a year since 1987 through the end of trading on Friday, ended Tuesday down 1.4 percent, the market’s second-worst loss of the year.Stocks slumped from the outset, and the selling worsened through the day after The Financial Times reported that the Trump administration had rejected an offer from China to hold preparatory talks ahead of high-level trade meetings in Washington later this month.Such advance discussions are thought to be an important step toward cementing an agreement between the world’s two largest economies before March 1. After that date, tariffs on some $200 billion of Chinese goods are scheduled to rise sharply, which would send the trade war into a new and more serious phase.Trade-sensitive tech and industrial shares were the worst performers. Microsoft, Facebook and Google’s parent company, Alphabet, all slumped. Semiconductor makers — much of whose revenue comes from sales in China — tumbled, with Nvidia and Micron dropping more than 5 percent.The major industrial exporters Caterpillar and Boeing fell 3.2 percent and 1.9 percent respectively.The tone from industrial firms that reported earnings on Tuesday did little to improve the mood. Shares of the tool manufacturer Stanley Black & Decker tumbled more than 15 percent after the company offered a disappointing outlook for 2019.“We tried to make it very clear that the economic backdrop is one of slowing growth,” James M. Loree, chief executive of Stanley Black & Decker, said on a conference call with analysts.The trade war seems to be a growing source of weakness for the global economy. On Monday, China reported that its economy grew at its slowest rate, 6.6 percent, since 1990, amid a slowdown of its export sector.The report came the same day as the International Monetary Fund trimmed its forecast for global growth in 2019 to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent, citing, in part, slowing worldwide trade.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tim GrayThree of the first quarter’s top-performing mutual funds won big by favoring small- and midcap growth stocks, toting up quarterly returns of 25 percent or more.The Virtus Zevenbergen Innovative Growth Stock Fund buys shares of companies of all sizes — its largest holding lately has been Amazon — but its big winners, so far this year, have been smaller fare such as WayFair, an online seller of home furnishings, and the Trade Desk, an online advertising marketplace.Nancy A. Zevenbergen, the fund’s lead manager, said her interest in growth stocks dates to the ’80s. She worked then in the trust department of a Seattle bank and followed — and was fascinated by — the 1986 initial public stock sale of a homegrown outfit named Microsoft. (Microsoft is based in the Seattle suburb of Redmond, Wash.) A year later, she started Zevenbergen Capital Investments in Seattle. Her mutual fund began in 2004.Being on the West Coast has proved an advantage, she said. Not only has Seattle birthed tech giants like Microsoft and Amazon, but “Silicon Valley is a day trip for us,” she said.Throughout her career, she has sought stocks she thinks can keep increasing revenue by at least 15 percent a year. Her mantra is: “Revenue growth, revenue growth, revenue growth,” she said.Favorite holdings can stay in the fund for years: Mercadolibre, an Argentine e-commerce outfit, has been there for a decade. That stock was lately one of only 31 in the fund, compared with 157 for the average actively managed United States stock fund tracked by Morningstar.Ms. Zevenbergen says she prefers companies that are run by their founders. As an example, she pointed to Microsoft. The stock soared while one of the founders, Bill Gates, steered the company but languished under his successor, Steven A. Ballmer. What’s more, boards of directors are typically not as patient with outsider C.E.O.s, and long-term investments require patience, she said.Her liking for founder-led outfits is part of the reason her fund has owned Tesla, the electric-car maker led by Elon Musk, since its 2010 initial public stock offering. Despite Tesla’s recent operational problems, she said: “Elon Musk is doing things people said couldn’t be done — and he’s up against an old, established industry and organized labor.”Ms. Zevenbergen added: “You can often get a C.E.O. with an M.B.A. from Harvard, but do they have the passion to run the business that the founder had?”The Virtus Zevenbergen fund, whose A shares have a net expense ratio of 1.25 percent, returned 25.24 percent in the first quarter, compared with a total return of 13.65 percent for the S&P 500 stock index.Matthew A. Weatherbie, one of the managers of the Alger SMid Cap Focus Fund, has been chasing growth stocks even longer than Ms. Zevenbergen. His investment career began in the ’70s, and he ran Putnam Voyager, then a well-known fund, starting in 1983. He left Putnam to start his own investment company in 1995, and he has managed the Alger fund since 2017. (Alger Associates acquired Mr. Weatherbie’s company in 2017.)Like Ms. Zevenbergen, he said his investment philosophy has remained consistent. “There have been some tweaks over time, but the basic process is the same,” he said. He and his co-managers seek companies in a growth sweet spot, he said. “They’ve been in business long enough to survive the perils of infancy, but they’ve got a long runway of growth ahead of them.”How three of the better performers of the first quarter of 2019 fared against the market — and against their peer groups of funds.Virtus Zevenbergen Innovative+30%+20+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.0JFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSVirtus Zevenbergen Innovative+25.2%Large-cap growth+16.0%Alger SMid Cap Focus+30%+20+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.0JFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSAlger SMid Cap Focus+30.6%Mid-cap growth+19.1%Lord Abbett Developing Growth+30%+20+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.0JFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSLord Abbett Developing Growth+27.1%Small-cap growth+18.1%Virtus Zevenbergen InnovativeAlger SMid Cap FocusLord Abbett Developing Growth+30%+30%+30%+20+20+20+10+10+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.000JFMJFMJFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSVirtus Zevenbergen InnovativeAlger SMid Cap FocusLord Abbett Developing Growth+25.2%+30.6%+27.1%Large-cap growthMid-cap growthSmall-cap growth+16.0%+19.1%+18.1%By The New York Times | Source: Morningstar DirectHoldings also must have “a competitive moat around the business, a strong balance sheet, high inherent profitability and a high-quality management team,” he said.To assemble the portfolio, the fund’s managers and analysts collaborate to identify 50 holdings that meet these criteria. Mr. Weatherbie and his co-portfolio managers — H. George Dai and Joshua D. Bennett — next take an unusual step.They divide the portfolio into three baskets. The managers then independently evaluate the 50 stocks, each determining the portion of the fund’s assets dedicated to each stock in his basket. As a result, the fund’s largest stakes are the stocks most favored by all three.“Why is Chegg or FirstService a top five holding?” Mr. Weatherbie asked. “Because each of us has determined that those are high-conviction names.”Chegg is an education-services company, while FirstService is a property manager and service provider for condos and cooperatives.Mr. Bennett said both companies exemplify something the managers hunt for: They’re fast growers in “mundane markets” not associated with zippy stocks in the way, say, consumer electronics and online entertainment are. Mr. Weatherbie added: “Our process enables us to identify hidden gems in mundane industries.”The Alger fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 1.33 percent, returned 30.58 percent in the first quarter.F. Thomas O’Halloran, the lead manager of the Lord Abbett Developing Growth Fund, seeks companies that show both disruption and momentum. For example, he has won lately with such well-known names as Yeti Holdings, the maker of insulated cups and coolers, and Roku, the video streaming outfit.These companies are disrupting their industries, he says, and their shares have lately trended upward.Take Roku and its streaming devices, which compete with ones sold by such tech behemoths as Apple and Amazon. “It’s not that one form of streaming is better than another,” Mr. O’Halloran said. “It’s that streaming is better than cable and regular TV, and Roku is the only Swiss-neutral platform.” Other devices are interwoven with technologies or business models peddled by their sellers.Mr. O’Halloran said he often finds promising picks among consumer stocks for the simple reason that consumer purchases drive growth in the United States. “That’s where 70 percent of spending in U.S. economy is,” he said.When considering what to wager on, Mr. O’Halloran said, he prefers companies with hefty potential markets — like Yeti. “The whole planet likes its food and beverages at the right temperature,” he said.He differs from some portfolio managers in that he bars members of his analyst team from writing reports on the companies they follow, relying instead on quick emails and frequent meetings. Churning out reports can lead to delays and self-defeating behavior, he said. “By the time you get a report done, a quarter to half of the stock move may be over. And when the stock peaks, you don’t want to let it go, because you wrote the big report on it.”Mr. O’Halloran’s fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 0.93 percent, returned 27.13 percent in the first quarter.Advertisement
          PAID FOR AND POSTED BY 
          MICROSOFT
Every day, people create  roughly 2.5 quintillion (25 followed by 17 zeros) bytes of data. For many workers, though, this deluge of information — and the technology that harvests it — has done little to make work easier. Employees today find themselves more distracted and overworked than ever. They’re burdened with mundane tasks, from tracking time to scheduling scores of meetings, and bombarded with small requests that disrupt focus. As a result, people are often prevented from sharing strategic expertise and conducting lateral thinking, the indirect, rather than step-based, problem-solving that inspires creativity and leads to breakthrough ideas.What can businesses do to make sure employees have the ability to focus and connect with colleagues who can push their thinking? Companies need to invest in technologies like A.I. that constantly analyze data to optimize employees’ time and help them share new ideas throughout the organization, experts say. 



 

‘A.I. can help workers deploy their skills, make unexpected connections and be better prepared for different facets of their day.’Jaime Teevan, the chief scientist for Experiences and Devices at Microsoft


 

‘A.I. can help workers deploy their skills, make unexpected connections and be better prepared for different facets of their day.’Jaime Teevan, the chief scientist for Experiences and Devices at Microsoft“One of the things we’re thinking about is how A.I. can increase the knowledge in an organization by helping a company understand all of its data,” says Jaime Teevan, the chief scientist for Experiences and Devices at Microsoft. “A.I. can help workers deploy their skills, make unexpected connections and be better prepared for different facets of their day.”But large organizations can be slow and walled off. A sales department, for instance, might have used A.I. to make a discovery about employee engagement, but it might not have the mechanisms to share insights or to help other teams carry out plans. That’s why Microsoft is building A.I. to make it easy for companies large and small to analyze reams of raw data, break down silos, and share new ways of boosting creativity and job satisfaction.“Companies that don’t harness their data are operating blind when it comes to managing their workforces,” says Natalie McCullough, the general manager of MyAnalytics and Workplace Analytics at Microsoft. “There’s so much evidence that heightened employee experience and engagement lead to organizational productivity and, ultimately, profitability, innovation and growth.”
Freeing Your Mind
 While you might think of A.I. as a technology that benefits organizations, it’s actually being used to bolster individual success — and, often, before workers even start their jobs. At Microsoft, for example, the human resources department uses A.I. to optimize the onboarding of new hires.The company’s H.R. department uses its Workplace Analytics software to securely merge employee collaboration data, like time spent in meetings and on email, with employee engagement data to determine the factors that lead to successful onboarding and support employees. As a result, Microsoft’s H.R. department discovered key markers that can spark greater productivity and engagement during an employee’s first 90 days at work. The H.R. department shared these insights with other groups at Microsoft so they could be used throughout the company.




 

‘When you’re in meetings all day, there's little time for deep thought or cognitive work.’Natalie McCullough, the general manager of MyAnalytics and Workplace Analytics at Microsoft



 

‘When you’re in meetings all day, there's little time for deep thought or cognitive work.’Natalie McCullough, the general manager of MyAnalytics and Workplace Analytics at MicrosoftOnce employees are onboarded, A.I. can curtail tiresome tasks that often stifle creative thinking. Microsoft built A.I., for instance, into its productivity apps that act as personal assistants, flagging missed emails, suggesting meeting locations, transcribing notes and even blocking off time for lunch and quiet thinking. And when an employee is on her way to a meeting, intelligent technologies like Microsoft 365 can save time by surfacing insights from LinkedIn, highlighting relevant materials and sharing documents before the event begins.Like any good, intuitive assistant, A.I. can also sense when people are overloaded. “When you’re in meetings all day, there's little time for deep thought or cognitive work,” McCullough says. “That’s why Microsoft has built programs to make sure people have the focus they need.” When someone is invited to many meetings, McCullough says, “A.I. can nudge her and ask: ‘Hey, this week is filling up. Do you want to block off some focus time?’"
Perfectly Paired Teams
 Behind the scenes, A.I. is busy learning how people work, both as individuals and on teams. A.I. can make relevant connections between people and content, says Anton Andrews, the lead of Envisioning for Modern Work and Life at Microsoft. “In this era of information abundance and uncertainty, it’s unlikely that we’ll always have the right mix of expertise and knowledge on our teams to come to the most innovative or creative solution,” Andrews says. “A.I.-powered platforms allow people to work in the open, creating opportunities for the right people and information to coalesce around the challenge at hand.” How might this work? Imagine a product manager in New York who’s looking for someone in her organization to build a product. Her ideal candidate needs a particular skill set, access to specific datasets and availability for a set period. But her company is large and complex; there aren’t readily accessible systems to supply her with candidates, and cross-department communication can be slow. In the end, it can take weeks — maybe months — to find the right person, critical time that can stall or limit innovation. 
But A.I. offers a clear solution to this all-too-common organizational quagmire. It can see across an organization’s network and suggest a team member — maybe even a remote one — who’s not only a strong fit but also available to take on more work. “A.I. can help people find each other, assemble, discover the information they need and support their collaboration,” Andrews says. “It’s helping to create connections across our networks.”When teammates assemble, A.I. can help them be more nimble and creative. In a concept space at Microsoft headquarters in Redmond, Wash., the company has built a 20-foot-long digital whiteboard called Collaboration Corner, which shows how workers can meet in person or virtually. Team members can display information on the wall from different apps and collaborate in real time using Microsoft Smart Ink, sticky notes, text, images and video from nearly any device. It’s all part of Microsoft’s plan to design intelligent work tools that remove boundaries from collaboration and creativity. “Our vision is to break down the barriers between different apps and capabilities,” Andrews says. “What if you could work the way your mind works, using an open canvas? Andrews imagines scenarios where people can create lists and diagrams, or pull up videos, imagery and documents, with teammates around the world without jumping from app to app. “Our research on human behavior suggests that this type of A.I.-powered, flexible work environment can increase a person’s ability to focus, while making remote collaboration more fruitful,” he says.
A.I. All Around UsTo help people succeed, A.I. must anticipate their needs and make their daily tasks easier. And to help companies succeed, A.I. must go beyond merely connecting people: It needs to unite teams, departments, divisions and external partners.“Organizations have a very large amount of information,” Andrews says, “with fresh data generated every day.” This makes it increasingly easy to lose track of information or stash it so it can’t be shared, he says. “It’s important to create a shared consciousness — a shared understanding of where we’re headed — by freely sharing information,” Andrews says. “Once different teams know what's happening around them, they can reach out and help each other, and leadership can push decision-making to the edges.” In the long term, A.I. has the potential to make work more meaningful and satisfying by reducing mundane tasks and amplifying human abilities. Soon, interacting with A.I. will become much more natural and seamless: A.I. will eventually be layered into our work environments, so people won’t have to be tethered to devices to access it. “You’ll be engaged with people, not a machine,” Teevan says.
Illustrations by Bratislav Milenković
The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — Microsoft Corp said on Tuesday its Xbox Game Studios will partner with Turner Sports' ELEAGUE to produce a documentary series about "Gears of War" players in conjunction with a new version of the video game launching later this year. The series will feature six hour-long programs focusing on the new game, called Gears 5, and the lives of its star players from around the globe. It will debut June 14 on Turner's TBS network.ELEAGUE produces content about esports and live tournaments. It is a partnership between Turner Sports, a unit of AT&T Inc's WarnerMedia, and entertainment talent agency IMG.Esports fans watch live video game tournaments online as well as in packed stadiums.In July, ELEAGUE will also host the first-ever Gears 5 esports tournament and reveal its first multiplayer mode in action, with coverage streamed on Twitch and Bleacher Report Live. Financial terms of the partnership were not disclosed.For Turner, the partnership is another opportunity to serve its sports and entertainment audience while also reaching new segments of the ballooning gaming viewership."The audience is the most coveted demographic in the media landscape," Craig Barry, chief content officer for Turner Sports, told Reuters. "We know they're out there, we know they're engaged. No one's really cracked the code yet."Esports fans are younger, more interactive and often more affluent than other sports audiences.Global esports revenues will grow nearly 27 percent to $1.1 billion this year, according to Newzoo research.Those numbers include all aspects of the industry, so ELEAGUE is targeting a smaller slice with Gears.Gears - developed by The Coalition, a studio within Microsoft's gaming business - has particularly impassioned fans, said Rose Gunson, program manager for Gears of War at Microsoft."Our players are very engaging, they have huge personalities. They are very interesting to watch," Gunson said. (Reporting by Hilary Russ; Editing by Dan Grebler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Cade Metz and Natasha SingerSAN FRANCISCO — At least 25 prominent artificial-intelligence researchers, including experts at Google, Facebook, Microsoft and a recent winner of the prestigious Turing Award, have signed a letter calling on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement agencies because it is biased against women and people of color.The letter, which was publicly released Wednesday, reflects growing concern in academia and the tech industry that bias in facial-recognition technology is a systemic problem. Some researchers — and even some companies — are arguing the technology cannot be properly controlled without government regulation.Amazon sells a product called Rekognition through its cloud-computing division, Amazon Web Services. The company said last year that early customers included the Orlando Police Department in Florida and the Washington County Sheriff’s Office in Oregon.In January, two researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology published a peer-reviewed study showing that Amazon Rekognition had more trouble identifying the gender of female and darker-skinned faces in photos than similar services from IBM and Microsoft. It mistook women for men 19 percent of the time, the study showed, and misidentified darker-skinned women for men 31 percent of the time.Before publishing their findings on Amazon Rekognition, the M.I.T. researchers released a similar study examining services from IBM, Microsoft and Megvii, an artificial-intelligence company in China. All three updated their services to address concerns raised by the researchers.In separate blog posts from the Amazon executives Matthew Wood and Michael Punke, the company disputed the study and a Jan. 24 article in The New York Times describing it.“The answer to anxieties over new technology is not to run ‘tests’ inconsistent with how the service is designed to be used, and to amplify the test’s false and misleading conclusions through the news media,” Dr. Wood wrote. Amazon did not directly engage with the M.I.T. researchers.The letter released on Wednesday was signed by the Google researchers Margaret Mitchell, Andrea Frome and Timnit Gebru; the Facebook researcher Georgia Gkioxari; William Isaac, a researcher at DeepMind, the London lab owned by Google’s parent company, Alphabet; and Yoshua Bengio, one of the world’s most important A.I. researchers.Last week, Dr. Bengio was one of three people to receive the Turing Award — often called “the Nobel Prize of computing” — for his work with neural networks, the technology that underpins modern facial recognition services.“There are no laws or required standards to ensure that Rekognition is used in a manner that does not infringe on civil liberties,” the A.I. researchers wrote. “We call on Amazon to stop selling Rekognition to law enforcement.”The researchers added that Dr. Wood and Mr. Punke had “misrepresented the technical details” of the M.I.T. study and modern facial-recognition technology. Amazon declined to comment on the letter on Wednesday.A day after this article was published, an Amazon spokeswoman responded, saying that the company had updated its Rekognition service since the M.I.T. researchers completed their study and that it had found no differences in error rates by gender and race when running similar tests.Microsoft, by contrast, improved the accuracy of its facial recognition last year after an earlier M.I.T. study reported that its system was better at identifying the gender of lighter-skinned men in a photo database than darker-skinned women.During a February talk at the Cornell Tech graduate school in New York, Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer, said the company had “participated in the market for law enforcement in the United States,” but had also turned down sales when there was concern it could unreasonably infringe on people’s rights.In February, Microsoft backed a bill in Washington State that would require notices to be posted in public places using facial-recognition tech and ensure that government agencies obtain a court order when looking for specific people. The bill is still pending. But the company did not back other legislation that provides much stronger protections.Mr. Punke wrote in his February blog post that Amazon also supported regulation of facial-recognition technology and called for law enforcement agencies to “be transparent in how they use facial-recognition technology.” But Amazon has declined to disclose how police or intelligence agencies are using its Rekognition system and whether the company puts any restrictions on its use.Amazon has said that it has not received any reports of Rekognition misuse by law enforcement, and that the company’s acceptable use policy prohibits customers from using its services in ways that violate laws.An earlier version of this article misstated the timing of Microsoft’s support for a law on facial recognition technology in Washington State. The company announced its support for the bill in February, not last year.Follow Cade Metz and Natasha Singer on Twitter: @CadeMetz and @natashanyt.Cade Metz reported from San Francisco, and Natasha Singer from New York.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — The Latest on initial flight of aircraft with world's longest wingspan (all times local):12:30 p.m.A giant aircraft with the world's longest wingspan took off from California Saturday morning and flew 2 ½ hours, achieving a maximum speed of 189 mph (304 kph).Stratolaunch CEO Jean Floyd said the aircraft made a spectacular landing.A company press release said the twin-fuselage jet hit altitudes up to 17,000 feet (5,181 meters) above the Mojave Desert while performance and handling qualities were evaluated.Founded by the late Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen, Stratolaunch is vying to be a contender in the satellite launch market. The aircraft is designed to release rockets attached to the center of its enormous wing, which stretches 385 feet (117 meters) from tip to tip.Floyd said in a teleconference briefing that it was amazing to "watch this majestic bird take flight" and he whispered a "thank-you" to Allen, who died in October 2018.___10:20 a.m.A giant aircraft with the world's longest wingspan has landed after its first ever flight.The twin-fuselage Stratolaunch jet landed two hours after taking off from Mojave Air and Space Port early Saturday.Founded by the late Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen, Stratolaunch is vying to be a contender in the satellite launch market.The aircraft is designed to release rockets attached to the center of its enormous wing, which stretches 385 feet (117 meters) from tip to tip — a longer wingspan than any other aircraft.___9:30 a.m.A giant six-engine aircraft with the world's longest wingspan has taken off from California on its first flight.The massive, twin-fuselage Stratolaunch jet designed to air-launch rockets into orbit lifted off from Mojave Air and Space Port early Saturday.Founded by the late Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen, Stratolaunch is vying to be a contender in the satellite launch market.The aircraft is designed to release rockets attached to the center of its enormous wing, which stretches 385 feet (117 meters) from tip to tip — a longer wingspan than any other aircraft.Stratolaunch recently dropped plans to develop its own line of rockets and will focus on launching Northrop Grumman's Pegasus XL.Allen died in October 2018.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David StreitfeldSAN FRANCISCO — A decade ago, when the greed and carelessness of the financial industry came close to destroying the American economy, the overwhelming response by politicians and the public was: Meh. Almost instantly, all was forgiven and forgotten.Now the tech industry — which, among other impressive innovations, provides the world’s knowledge on demand, lets people freely broadcast their diverse opinions and has made shopping as easy as pushing a button — has made some mistakes of its own. It has abused privacy, squeezed the competition and casually spread hate. And that’s just the beginning of the list.Google, Facebook, Amazon and Apple might not get away as cleanly as Goldman Sachs and Citigroup. Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts senator who is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, released proposals this month that would force tech breakups and impose severe restrictions on what remained. Another Democratic presidential candidate, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, covered more briefly some of the same ground, saying, “We have a major monopoly problem.”At a moment when nearly everything in America seems wildly contentious, antitrust action against tech is getting a sober look. Antitrust is the nuclear bomb of regulatory policy, but the reaction to Ms. Warren’s and Ms. Klobuchar’s ideas was surprisingly receptive.“We’ve got to break these guys apart,” Ms. Warren said in an interview on “Face the Nation.” The show could name only one critic of her proposal: Howard Schultz, the Starbucks mogul, who is flirting with an independent run for president to the deep disregard of voters.“A billionaire, right?” Ms. Warren noted.For decades, a politician who mentioned “antitrust” was essentially arguing for more government oversight, which has been dangerous territory at least since the Ronald Reagan administration. “Antitrust” was relegated to the shelf with “socialism” and “wealth inequality” and “higher taxes for higher incomes.”It didn’t help that what could be called “maximum antitrust” — when the Justice Department decides a company is abusing its monopoly power and should be broken up — has a mixed history. The government dropped such a case against IBM in 1982 after more than a decade. It settled its case against Microsoft in 2001. Only AT&T, which agreed in 1982 to dissolve itself into a long-distance company and the seven Baby Bells, could be considered an unqualified success from the government’s point of view.The political landscape is shifting, however, at a speed that dumbfounds even antitrust experts. President Barack Obama thought of the tech companies in the way they think of themselves: as progressive, smart entrepreneurs who want what’s best for America. His administration declined to pursue Google on antitrust charges and hired from the tech industry for top posts. Top staff members later went to work for the tech industry in top posts, too. It was a cozy relationship.“Something has definitely changed,” said Geoffrey A. Manne, the founder of the International Center for Law and Economics, a think tank in Portland, Ore. “Most voters are very fond of Amazon, Apple, Google and even Facebook. But I think there’s also a growing sense of skepticism about all these companies. The shine has come off.”Mr. Manne, who has been a critic of the antitrust arguments against Google and has received funding from the search giant as well as from some of its competitors, including Comcast and AT&T, eviscerated Ms. Warren’s proposal with his colleague Alec Stapp in a recent blog post. They wrote that the senator’s plan to turn the top companies into heavily regulated “platform utilities” would make them as resistant to improvement as sewer systems or Amtrak.And yet, Mr. Manne conceded in an interview, increased regulation is an idea whose time may have come.“There is a long history in America — just not a recent one — of using the power of the state to counteract the economic power of private enterprise,” he said. “We may be at that moment again.”The financial firms were predatory last decade, exploiting weak spots in the mortgage markets in a way that undermined their viability. Google and Facebook, by contrast, offer their services for free, while Amazon built its reputation on selling as cheaply as possible. That makes it hard to regulate them by the antitrust consensus, which for a couple of decades has held that there is no injury unless consumers directly suffer by paying higher prices.Nothing is ever really free, of course, and there has been a dawning realization among some consumers that they are paying for these services with information about themselves. How most users feel about this seems up in the air, as evidenced by a new SurveyMonkey poll done for the news site Axios.The headline finding was that “a growing majority now views our online privacy as a crisis.” But deeper in the survey was the revelation that more than half the respondents said they were unwilling to pay to keep from being tracked by a service they were using. Twenty-one percent said they would pay less than $1 a month, and no more, for the right.Users, it seems, want it both ways: privacy and free services. This is the contradiction at the heart of the internet.Daniel Crane, an antitrust expert at the University of Michigan, said Ms. Warren’s proposal might be a hard sell to voters. “The median consumer probably feels that she gets lots of free goodies from Big Tech and will worry about what it would mean to go after them,” he said.But Mr. Crane noted that being broken up was the least of the companies’ worries. “A likelier consequence is that the next acquisition they want to make will be rejected,” he said. “Even just the rhetoric can complicate their lives and put pressure going forward.”That is already happening. One of the anti-competitive complaints about Amazon is that it prohibited its merchants from selling more cheaply elsewhere. That prevented a new platform from underselling Amazon and gaining a competitive edge.Amazon ended this practice in Europe six years ago, but it continued in the United States. Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, asked for regulators to investigate in December. Last week, Amazon confirmed that it had dropped the requirement.Antitrust talk emboldens competitors as well. Google controls much of the market for online ads in Australia, just as it does elsewhere. That presents a big problem for News Corporation, which owns eight of the 10 largest papers in the country.The Rupert Murdoch-controlled media conglomerate asked Australian regulators last week to take the “very serious step” of breaking up Google in the country because of the “unparalleled power that it currently exerts over news publishers and advertisers alike.”In this new environment, winning can soon look a lot like losing.Amazon opposed a proposal in Seattle last spring for a corporate tax to help the homeless, and succeeded in getting it cut in half. Then the retailer decided it just couldn’t live with the measure at all. A repeal effort began. The City Council killed the tax just as it was going into effect.At the time, that looked like another triumph for Amazon. But in the months since, even some of those who thought the tax was a bad idea have found their views evolving.“My feelings about Amazon have changed, and not in a good way,” said Julie Shapiro, a Seattle University professor of family law. “I think they want the ability to be a bully and, once they have it, they’re quite willing to use it.”That is the crux of the issue: Can a company be dominant without coming off as a bully? It is no accident that the company that was the subject of the biggest antitrust action in the last quarter-century — Microsoft — had a terrible reputation in the tech community. Voters love innovation, convenience and entrepreneurs. They don’t love bullies.Amazon failed to avoid bullying behavior in its now-abandoned bid to build a headquarters in New York, and Facebook likewise failed last week when it took down Ms. Warren’s posts about Facebook having too much power. The company, which said the posts had violated the use of its logo, quickly restored them, but the public relations damage had been done.“Curious why I think FB has too much power?” Ms. Warren tweeted. “Let’s start with their ability to shut down a debate over whether FB has too much power.”Follow David Streitfeld on Twitter: @DavidStreitfeld.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Talya MinsbergHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — Ashton B. Carter, the former secretary of defense, understands why employees of technology companies have opposed partnerships and contracts with the United States government when it comes to artificial intelligence.“My first reaction was ‘good on you’ because you are thinking morally and you are thinking about whether what you are doing is right or wrong,” Mr. Carter said at The New York Times New Work Summit in Half Moon Bay, Calif.The sentiment comes at a time of strained relationships between Silicon Valley technology behemoths and the United States government.When Mr. Carter was secretary of defense in the Obama administration, he was often considered a bridge builder between the Beltway and the Valley, founding agencies that brought together technologists and policymakers.He notably issued a directive that stands today. “In any application of machine-assisted weaponry that involves the use of lethal force, there shall be a human being involved in the decision-making,” he said.But those partnerships have been tested in the past year as protests, pushback and petitions have circulated widely among employees of technology companies.Last July, Microsoft employees presented their chief executive, Satya Nadella, with a petition signed by more than 300,000 people that called on the company to cancel its contract with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.Last June, Google declined to renew its contract with Project Maven at the Pentagon after extensive pushback from employees. The project used Google’s artificial intelligence software to improve the sorting and analysis of imagery from drones.And in October, Google executives declined to even bid on another artificial intelligence project at the Pentagon valued at as much as $10 billion.These protests speak to the newfound power of employees, said Pedro Domingos, a professor of computer science at the University of Washington and the author of “The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World.”“Employees of tech companies, like Google and Microsoft, have an extraordinary amount of power, which is much different than it was 50 years ago,” he said, adding that technology companies were major players in both World War II and the Cold War. “Often companies want to do things, but then they have to backtrack because they don’t want to displace employees.”Mr. Carter was supportive of that kind of employee involvement in his conversation with Kevin Roose, a reporter for The Times. “It’s a fair thing to challenge your leaders,” Mr. Carter said. “That’s true for troops, and it’s true for employees at a tech company.”But, he said, “I find a lot of things more objectionable than helping your country protect you.”That’s a sentiment echoed by the president of Microsoft, Brad Smith. In October, Mr. Smith wrote his employees  a public note on the Microsoft blog regarding defense projects and collaboration with the United States government.“First, we believe in the strong defense of the United States, and we want the people who defend it to have access to the nation’s best technology, including from Microsoft,” he wrote. “We are not going to withdraw from the future. In the most positive way possible, we are going to work to help shape it.”But at the New Work Summit, he also shared some instances in which he was uncomfortable working with the government when he had ethical and technological misgivings.“We’re very excited about facial recognition technology, but we also have concerns,” he said, referencing a partnership he declined to enter with a local police force. “This is a space where there’s been well-documented cases of bias, invasion of privacy and the potential for fundamental democratic freedoms to be placed at risk.”The way forward has to be in the hands of technology companies like Microsoft and Google and of the United States government, Mr. Carter said. But collaboration is more important now than ever.“Technology and public purpose is the issue of our time,” he said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Michael LaForgia, Matthew Rosenberg and Gabriel J.X. DanceFederal prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation into data deals Facebook struck with some of the world’s largest technology companies, intensifying scrutiny of the social media giant’s business practices as it seeks to rebound from a year of scandal and setbacks.A grand jury in New York has subpoenaed records from at least two prominent makers of smartphones and other devices, according to two people who were familiar with the requests and who insisted on anonymity to discuss confidential legal matters. Both companies had entered into partnerships with Facebook, gaining broad access to the personal information of hundreds of millions of its users.The companies were among more than 150, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, that had cut sharing deals with the world’s dominant social media platform. The agreements, previously reported in The New York Times, let the companies see users’ friends, contact information and other data, sometimes without consent. Facebook has phased out most of the partnerships over the past two years.“We are cooperating with investigators and take those probes seriously,” a Facebook spokesman said in a statement. “We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions and pledged that we will continue to do so.”[Read Brian Chen’s story on what he found when he downloaded his Facebook data.]It is not clear when the grand jury inquiry, overseen by prosecutors with the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York, began or exactly what it is focusing on. Facebook was already facing scrutiny by the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission. And the Justice Department’s securities fraud unit began investigating it after reports that Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm, had improperly obtained the Facebook data of 87 million people and used it to build tools that helped President Trump’s election campaign.The Justice Department and the Eastern District declined to comment for this article.The Cambridge investigation, still active, is being run by prosecutors from the Northern District of California. One former Cambridge employee said investigators questioned him as recently as late February. He and three other witnesses in the case, speaking on the condition of anonymity so they would not anger prosecutors, said a significant line of inquiry involved Facebook’s claims that it was misled by Cambridge.[Read more on the 5 ways Facebook shared your data.]In public statements, Facebook executives had said that Cambridge told the company it was gathering data only for academic purposes. But the fine print accompanying a quiz app that collected the information said it could also be used commercially. Selling user data would have violated Facebook’s rules at the time, yet the social network does not appear to have regularly checked that apps were complying. Facebook deleted the quiz app in December 2015.The disclosures about Cambridge last year thrust Facebook into the worst crisis of its history. Then came news reports last June and December that Facebook had given business partners — including makers of smartphones, tablets and other devices — deep access to users’ personal information, letting some companies effectively override users’ privacy settings.The sharing deals empowered Microsoft’s Bing search engine to map out the friends of virtually all Facebook users without their explicit consent, and allowed Amazon to obtain users’ names and contact information through their friends. Apple was able to hide from Facebook users all indicators that its devices were even asking for data.Privacy advocates said the partnerships seemed to violate a 2011 consent agreement between Facebook and the F.T.C., stemming from allegations that the company had shared data in ways that deceived consumers. The deals also appeared to contradict statements by Mark Zuckerberg and other executives that Facebook had clamped down several years ago on sharing the data of users’ friends with outside developers.F.T.C. officials, who spent the past year investigating whether Facebook violated the 2011 agreement, are now weighing the sharing deals as they negotiate a possible multibillion-dollar fine. That would be the largest such penalty ever imposed by the trade regulator.Facebook has aggressively defended the partnerships, saying they were permitted under a provision in the F.T.C. agreement that covered service providers — companies that acted as extensions of the social network.The company has taken steps in the past year to tackle data misuse and misinformation. Last week, Mr. Zuckerberg unveiled a plan that would begin to pivot Facebook away from being a platform for public sharing and put more emphasis on private communications.Nicholas Confessore, Alan Feuer and Rebecca R. Ruiz contributed reporting.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy EngleBefore reading the article:Do you like playing video games? Why?What’s your favorite game? Do you have a favorite game system or game controller?Watch this commercial for the new Xbox Adaptive Controller by Microsoft: “We All Win.” What did you learn from the commercial? Do you think it is an effective ad? Who do you think is its intended audience?Now, read the article, “Adaptive Video Game Controllers Open Worlds for Gamers With Disabilities,” and answer the following questions: 1. The article begins, “Erin Hawley grew up immersed in video games.” What evidence does the author provide to support that statement? How did Ms. Hawley’s muscular dystrophy make it difficult to continue playing video games with increasingly complex gameplay?2. Compare the modern controller to what the author describes as a “gaming relic.” How does the Xbox Adaptive Controller better meet the needs of people with certain disabilities than most modern controllers?3. Before Microsoft’s new controller, how did the gamer community — especially gamers with disabilities — adapt video game technology to meet the needs of diverse users?4. How has the Adaptive Controller affected the lives of gamers with disabilities like Ms. Hawley?5. Why will the new controller’s versatility also be attractive to the broader community of gamers, including professional gamers, according to Bryce Johnson, Microsoft’s inclusive lead for product research and accessibility?6. The article concludes with a quotation from Mark Barlet, a disabled Air Force veteran and founder of AbleGamers:If you’re on the streets, everyone knows you’re a profoundly disabled individual. You can’t hide this fact. But in a video game, you’re a player. We all jump into video games for some level of fantasy.Do you agree with Mr. Barlet? Are video games a way to escape the limitations of everyday life and jump into fantasy? What draws you to video games?Finally, tell us more about what you think:— What did you learn from the article? What was most interesting or surprising to you? In what ways do video games in general, and controllers in particular, meet or not meet your needs? Do you think you would want to use the Xbox Adaptive Controller?— What role do video games have in your life? Do you consider yourself a gamer? Or are you just an occasional player? In what ways has gaming opened up new worlds for you? What life lessons has gaming taught you?— How would you redesign your favorite game, console or controller to be more accessible to gamers with a range of different needs?— In 2010, Congress passed the 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act, which requires companies to make computers, smartphones, gaming consoles and other technology accessible to people with disabilities. What industries, companies and products would you like to see create or redesign products to better meet the diverse needs of its users?Other ResourcesVideo Games Are a Waste of Time? Not for Those With E-sports ScholarshipsAll We Want to Do Is Watch Each Other Play Video GamesThe Learning Network: Should There Be More Educational Video Games in School?AdvertisementIn new tests, Amazon’s system had more difficulty identifying the gender of female and darker-skinned faces than similar services from IBM and Microsoft.Deborah Raji, a college student, helped Joy Buolamwini of the M.I.T. Media Lab test facial technologies from Amazon, IBM, Microsoft, Face++ and Kairos.CreditCreditJaime Hogge for The New York TimesSupported byBy Natasha SingerOver the last two years, Amazon has aggressively marketed its facial recognition technology to police departments and federal agencies as a service to help law enforcement identify suspects more quickly. It has done so as another tech giant, Microsoft, has called on Congress to regulate the technology, arguing that it is too risky for companies to oversee on their own.Now a new study from researchers at the M.I.T. Media Lab has found that Amazon’s system, Rekognition, had much more difficulty in telling the gender of female faces and of darker-skinned faces in photos than similar services from IBM and Microsoft. The results raise questions about potential bias that could hamper Amazon’s drive to popularize the technology.In the study, published Thursday, Rekognition made no errors in recognizing the gender of lighter-skinned men. But it misclassified women as men 19 percent of the time, the researchers said, and mistook darker-skinned women for men 31 percent of the time. Microsoft’s technology mistook darker-skinned women for men just 1.5 percent of the time.A study published a year ago found similar problems in the programs built by IBM, Microsoft and Megvii, an artificial intelligence company in China known as Face++. Those results set off an outcry that was amplified when a co-author of the study, Joy Buolamwini, posted YouTube videos showing the technology misclassifying famous African-American women, like Michelle Obama, as men.The companies in last year’s report all reacted by quickly releasing more accurate technology. For the latest study, Ms. Buolamwini said, she sent a letter with some preliminary results to Amazon seven months ago. But she said that she hadn’t heard back from Amazon, and that when she and a co-author retested the company’s product a couple of months later, it had not improved.Matt Wood, general manager of artificial intelligence at Amazon Web Services, said the researchers had examined facial analysis — a technology that can spot features such as mustaches or expressions such as smiles — and not facial recognition, a technology that can match faces in photos or video stills to identify individuals. Amazon markets both services.“It’s not possible to draw a conclusion on the accuracy of facial recognition for any use case — including law enforcement — based on results obtained using facial analysis,” Dr. Wood said in a statement. He added that the researchers had not tested the latest version of Rekognition, which was updated in November.Amazon said that in recent internal tests using an updated version of its service, the company found no difference in accuracy in classifying gender across all ethnicities.With advancements in artificial intelligence, facial technologies — services that can be used to identify people in crowds, analyze their emotions, or detect their age and facial characteristics — are proliferating. Now, as companies begin to market these services more aggressively for uses like policing and vetting job candidates, they have emerged as a lightning rod in the debate about whether and how Congress should regulate powerful emerging technologies.The new study, scheduled to be presented Monday at an artificial intelligence and ethics conference in Honolulu, is sure to inflame that argument.Proponents see facial recognition as an important advance in helping law enforcement agencies catch criminals and find missing children. Some police departments, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, have tested Amazon’s product.But civil liberties experts warn that it can also be used to secretly identify people — potentially chilling Americans’ ability to speak freely or simply go about their business anonymously in public.Over the last year, Amazon has come under intense scrutiny by federal lawmakers, the American Civil Liberties Union, shareholders, employees and academic researchers for marketing Rekognition to law enforcement agencies. That is partly because, unlike Microsoft, IBM and other tech giants, Amazon has been less willing to publicly discuss concerns.Amazon, citing customer confidentiality, has also declined to answer questions from federal lawmakers about which government agencies are using Rekognition or how they are using it. The company’s responses have further troubled some federal lawmakers.“Not only do I want to see them address our concerns with the sense of urgency it deserves,” said Representative Jimmy Gomez, a California Democrat who has been investigating Amazon’s facial recognition practices. “But I also want to know if law enforcement is using it in ways that violate civil liberties, and what — if any — protections Amazon has built into the technology to protect the rights of our constituents.”In a letter last month to Mr. Gomez, Amazon said Rekognition customers must abide by Amazon’s policies, which require them to comply with civil rights and other laws. But the company said that for privacy reasons it did not audit customers, giving it little insight into how its product is being used.The study published last year reported that Microsoft had a perfect score in identifying the gender of lighter-skinned men in a photo database, but that it misclassified darker-skinned women as men about one in five times. IBM and Face++ had an even higher error rate, each misclassifying the gender of darker-skinned women about one in three times.Ms. Buolamwini said she had developed her methodology with the idea of harnessing public pressure, and market competition, to push companies to fix biases in their software that could pose serious risks to people.“One of the things we were trying to explore with the paper was how to galvanize action,” Ms. Buolamwini said.Immediately after the study came out last year, IBM published a blog post, “Mitigating Bias in A.I. Models,” citing Ms. Buolamwini’s study. In the post, Ruchir Puri, chief architect at IBM Watson, said IBM had been working for months to reduce bias in its facial recognition system. The company post included test results showing improvements, particularly in classifying the gender of darker-skinned women. Soon after, IBM released a new system that the company said had a tenfold decrease in error rates.A few months later, Microsoft published its own post, titled “Microsoft improves facial recognition technology to perform well across all skin tones, genders.” In particular, the company said, it had significantly reduced the error rates for female and darker-skinned faces.Ms. Buolamwini wanted to learn whether the study had changed overall industry practices. So she and a colleague, Deborah Raji, a college student who did an internship at the M.I.T. Media Lab last summer, conducted a new study.In it, they retested the facial systems of IBM, Microsoft and Face++. They also tested the facial systems of two companies that were not included in the first study: Amazon and Kairos, a start-up in Florida.The new study found that IBM, Microsoft and Face++ all improved their accuracy in identifying gender.By contrast, the study reported, Amazon misclassified the gender of darker-skinned females 31 percent of the time, while Kairos had an error rate of 22.5 percent.Melissa Doval, the chief executive of Kairos, said the company, inspired by Ms. Buolamwini’s work, released a more accurate algorithm in October.Ms. Buolamwini said the results of her studies raised fundamental questions for society about whether facial technology should not be used in certain situations, such as job interviews, or in products, like drones or police body cameras.Some federal lawmakers are voicing similar issues.“Technology like Amazon’s Rekognition should be used if and only if it is imbued with American values like the right to privacy and equal protection,” said Senator Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who has been investigating Amazon’s facial recognition practices. “I do not think that standard is currently being met.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — The world's largest aircraft took off over the Mojave Desert in California on Saturday, the first flight for the carbon-composite plane built by Stratolaunch Systems Corp, started by late Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, as the company enters the lucrative private space market. The white airplane called Roc, which has a wingspan the length of an American football field and is powered by six engines on a twin fuselage, took to the air shortly before 7 a.m. Pacific time (1400 GMT) and stayed aloft for more than two hours before landing safely back at the Mojave Air and Space Port as a crowd of hundreds of people cheered."What a fantastic first flight," Stratolaunch Chief Executive Officer Jean Floyd said in a statement posted to the company's website. "Today’s flight furthers our mission to provide a flexible alternative to ground launched systems, Floyd said. "We are incredibly proud of the Stratolaunch team, today’s flight crew, our partners at Northrup Grumman’s Scaled Composites and the Mojave Air and Space Port."The plane is designed to drop rockets and other space vehicles weighing up to 500,000 pounds at an altitude of 35,000 feet and has been billed by the company as making satellite deployment as "easy as booking an airline flight."Saturday's flight, which saw the plane reach a maximum speed of 189 miles per hour and altitudes of 17,000 feet, was meant to test its performance and handling qualities, according to Stratolaunch. Allen, who co-founded Microsoft with Bill Gates in 1975, announced in 2011 that he had formed the privately funded Stratolaunch.The company seeks to cash in on higher demand in coming years for vessels that can put satellites in orbit, competing in the United States with other space entrepreneurs and industry stalwarts such as Elon Musk’s SpaceX and United Launch Alliance - a partnership between Boeing and Lockheed Martin. Stratolaunch has said that it intends to launch its first rockets from the Roc in 2020 at the earliest. Allen died in October 2018 while suffering from non-Hodgkins' lymphoma, just months after the plane's development was unveiled. "We all know Paul would have been proud to witness today’s historic achievement," said Jody Allen, Chair of Vulcan Inc and Trustee of the Paul G. Allen Trust. "The aircraft is a remarkable engineering achievement and we congratulate everyone involved." (Reporting by Dan Whitcomb; editing by Grant McCool)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHONOLULU — A company owned by British billionaire Richard Branson is picking Guam as a site for its airplane-launched satellite service.Virgin Orbit plans to launch small satellites from a rocket released by a customized Boeing 747. It has another site in California.The company said Thursday the U.S. Air Force will allow it to take off from the U.S. territory's Anderson Air Force Base. Guam's international airport is seeking a Federal Aviation Administration license to host launches.Payloads will weigh up to 450 kilograms (1,000 pounds) and orbit the equator at an altitude of about 500 kilometers (310 miles).The satellites will be for communications, research and other uses. The U.S. military is expected to be a customer.Late Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen started a company that will perform similar launches.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Cade MetzHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — When a news article revealed that Clarifai was working with the Pentagon and some employees questioned the ethics of building artificial intelligence that analyzed video captured by drones, the company said the project would save the lives of civilians and soldiers.“Clarifai’s mission is to accelerate the progress of humanity with continually improving A.I.,” read a blog post from Matt Zeiler, the company’s founder and chief executive, and a prominent A.I. researcher. Later, in a news media interview, Mr. Zeiler announced a new management position that would ensure all company projects were ethically sound.As activists, researchers, and journalists voice concerns over the rise of artificial intelligence, warning against biased, deceptive and malicious applications, the companies building this technology are responding. From tech giants like Google and Microsoft to scrappy A.I. start-ups, many are creating corporate principles meant to ensure their systems are designed and deployed in an ethical way. Some set up ethics officers or review boards to oversee these principles.But tensions continue to rise as some question whether these promises will ultimately be kept. Companies can change course. Idealism can bow to financial pressure. Some activists — and even some companies — are beginning to argue that the only way to ensure ethical practices is through government regulation.“We don’t want to see a commercial race to the bottom,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer, said at the New Work Summit in Half Moon Bay, Calif., hosted last week by The New York Times. “Law is needed.”The new ethics position at Clarifai never materialized. As this New York City start-up pushed further into military applications and facial recognition services, some employees grew increasingly concerned their work would end up feeding automated warfare or mass surveillance. In late January, on a company message board, they posted an open letter asking Mr. Zeiler where their work was headed.A few days later, Mr. Zeiler held a companywide meeting, according to three people who spoke on the condition that they not be identified for fear of retaliation. He explained that internal ethics officers did not suit a small company like Clarifai. And he told the employees that Clarifai technology would one day contribute to autonomous weapons.Clarifai specializes in technology that instantly recognizes objects in photos and video. Policymakers call this a “dual-use technology.” It has everyday commercial applications, like identifying designer handbags on a retail website, as well as military applications, like identifying targets for drones.This and other rapidly advancing forms of artificial intelligence can improve transportation, health care and scientific research. Or they can feed mass surveillance, online phishing attacks and the spread of false news.As companies and governments deploy these A.I. technologies, researchers are also realizing that some systems are woefully biased. Facial recognition services, for instance, can be significantly less accurate when trying to identify women or someone with darker skin. Other systems may include security holes unlike any seen in the past. Researchers have shown that driverless cars can be fooled into seeing things that are not really there.All this means that building ethical artificial intelligence is an enormously complex task. It gets even harder when stakeholders realize that ethics are in the eye of the beholder.As some Microsoft employees protest the company’s military contracts, Mr. Smith said that American tech companies had long supported the military and that they must continue to do so. “The U.S. military is charged with protecting the freedoms of this country,” he told the conference. “We have to stand by the people who are risking their lives.”Though some Clarifai employees draw an ethical line at autonomous weapons, others do not. Mr. Zeiler argued that autonomous weapons will ultimately save lives because they would be more accurate than weapons controlled by human operators. “A.I. is an essential tool in helping weapons become more accurate, reducing collateral damage, minimizing civilian casualties and friendly fire incidents,” he said in a statement.Google worked on the same Pentagon project as Clarifai, and after a protest from company employees, the tech giant ultimately ended its involvement. But like Clarifai, as many as 20 other companies have worked on the project without bowing to ethical concerns.After the controversy over its Pentagon work, Google laid down a set of “A.I. principles” meant as a guide for future projects. But even with the corporate rules in place, some employees left the company in protest. The new principles are open to interpretation. And they are overseen by executives who must also protect the company’s financial interests.“You functionally have situations where the foxes are guarding the henhouse,” said Liz Fong-Jones, a former Google employee who left the company late last year.In 2014, when Google acquired DeepMind, perhaps the world’s most important A.I. lab, the company agreed to set up an external review board that would ensure the lab’s research would not be used in military applications or otherwise unethical projects. But five years later, it is still unclear whether this board even exists.Google, Microsoft, Facebook and other companies have created organizations like the Partnership on A.I. that aim to guide the practices of the entire industry. But these operations are largely toothless.The most significant changes have been driven by employee protests, like the one at Google, and pointed research from academics and other independent experts. After Amazon employees protested the sale of facial recognition services to police departments and various academic studies highlighted the bias that plagues these services, Amazon and Microsoft called for government regulation in this area.“People are recognizing there are issues, and they are recognizing they want to change them,” said Meredith Whittaker, a Google employee and the co-founder of the AI Now Institute, a research institute that examines the social implications of artificial intelligence. But she also told the conference that this change was slow to happen, as the forces of capitalism continued to drive these companies toward greater profits.Employees at Clarifai worry that the same technological tools that drive facial recognition will ultimately lead to autonomous weapons — and that flaws in these tools will open a Pandora’s box of problems. “We in the industry know that technology can be compromised. Hackers hack. Bias is unavoidable,” read the open letter to Mr. Zeiler.Thousands of A.I. researchers from across the industry have signed a separate open letter saying they will oppose autonomous weapons.The Pentagon has said that artificial intelligence built by the likes of Google and Clarifai has not been used for offensive purposes. And it is now building its own set of ethical principles, realizing it needs the support of industry, which has snapped up most of the world’s top A.I. researchers in recent years.But many policy experts say they believe these principles are unlikely to hold any more influence than those laid down at the big corporations, especially because the Pentagon is motivated to keep pace with China, Russia and other international rivals as they develop similar technology. For that reason, some are calling for international treaties that would bar the use of autonomous weapons.In their open letter, the Clarifai employees said they were unsure whether regulation was the answer to the many ethical questions swirling around A.I. technology, arguing that the immediate responsibility rested with the company itself.“Regulation slows progress, and our species needs progress to survive the many threats that face us today,” they wrote, addressing Mr. Zeiler and the rest of the company. “We need to be ethical enough to be trusted to make this technology on our own, and we owe it to the public to define our ethics clearly.”But their letter did not have the desired effect. In the days after Mr. Zeiler explained that Clarifai would most likely contribute to autonomous weapons, the employee who wrote the letter and was originally tapped to serve as an ethics adviser, Liz O’Sullivan, left the company.Researchers and activists like Ms. Whittaker see this as a moment when tech employees can use their power to drive change. But they have also said this must happen outside tech companies as well as within.“We need regulation,” Ms. Whittaker said, before name-dropping Microsoft’s chief legal officer. “Even Brad Smith says we need regulation.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Erin GriffithSAN FRANCISCO — Slack, a workplace messaging company, said Monday that it had confidentially filed paperwork for an initial public offering, joining the growing number of technology start-ups heading to the stock market.Slack, which is based in San Francisco, gave no details about the offering’s timing and said it was awaiting a standard review of its paperwork by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The move was expected given that Slack’s chief executive, Stewart Butterfield, had long indicated that he planned to take the company public. Slack recently hired Goldman Sachs to lead the offering.Slack’s confidential filing comes amid a rush by privately held companies to go public this year. Many of these start-ups, which have been highly valued by private investors, are part of a generation of technology companies known as unicorns. Public share sales by the companies are expected to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley for entrepreneurs and venture capital investors.In December, the ride-hailing companies Uber and Lyft filed confidential paperwork for their own public offerings. Their efforts stalled temporarily last month when a government shutdown hampered the S.E.C.’s ability to review the companies’ registration documents. Other tech companies expected to go public this year include the online scrapbooking firm Pinterest.Slack declined to comment beyond its statement about the confidential filing.There is likely to be a strong demand for Slack stock. The company was valued at $7.1 billion by private investors last year, but in recent weeks investment firms have offered to buy its shares at a price that values Slack at $13 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the details who was not authorized to speak publicly.Slack also plans an unusual form of public offering called a direct listing, the person added. Unlike most I.P.O.s, in which firms sell stock to public market investors in advance, direct listings let a company begin trading its shares on an exchange without raising new funds. Spotify, a provider of streaming music, went public in 2018 in a direct listing, paving the way for other high-profile start-ups to follow.With a direct listing, shareholders can also sell their stock immediately after the public offering, instead of waiting for what is known as a lockup period to expire.Slack has little need for cash. It raised $427 million in new financing in August, a year after raising $250 million. The company has collected a total of more than $1 billion from investors that include the SoftBank Vision Fund, General Atlantic, Dragoneer Investment Group and T. Rowe Price Associates.Mr. Butterfield began Slack out of a gaming start-up, Tiny Speck. While the company’s game products failed to take off, its internal communication tool showed promise. In 2014, the company began selling that communication tool, called Slack.Start-ups quickly adopted Slack, and larger companies followed suit. The company offers free and paid versions of Slack and counts more than 85,000 paying customers, including 65 Fortune 100 companies. Last month, Slack said 10 million people now used its product every day. The company generated more than $350 million in revenue last year, said the person with knowledge of the details.Some companies that have filed to go public have never reached that finish line. Over the last year, a number of high-profile business software companies that took steps to go public were snapped up by a tech giant at the last minute. In November, for example, Qualtrics, an analytics start-up, sold to SAP for $8 billion just days before it was set to ring the opening bell at Nasdaq.Google, Microsoft and Amazon have previously expressed interest in acquiring Slack, but the company has demurred. Now some of them have increasingly begun to compete with the start-up. When Microsoft introduced its own workplace messaging company, Microsoft Teams, in 2016, Slack took out a newspaper ad directed at its new competitor.“We’re genuinely excited to have some competition,” it read.In January, Microsoft announced that 420,000 organizations used its Teams product, including 89 of the Fortune 100.Follow Erin Griffith on Twitter: @eringriffith.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Cade MetzSAN FRANCISCO — In 2004, Geoffrey Hinton doubled down on his pursuit of a technological idea called a neural network.It was a way for machines to see the world around them, recognize sounds and even understand natural language. But scientists had spent more than 50 years working on the concept of neural networks, and machines couldn’t really do any of that.Backed by the Canadian government, Dr. Hinton, a computer science professor at the University of Toronto, organized a new research community with several academics who also tackled the concept. They included Yann LeCun, a professor at New York University, and Yoshua Bengio at the University of Montreal.On Wednesday, the Association for Computing Machinery, the world’s largest society of computing professionals, announced that Drs. Hinton, LeCun and Bengio had won this year’s Turing Award for their work on neural networks. The Turing Award, which was introduced in 1966, is often called the Nobel Prize of computing, and it includes a $1 million prize, which the three scientists will share.Over the past decade, the big idea nurtured by these researchers has reinvented the way technology is built, accelerating the development of face-recognition services, talking digital assistants, warehouse robots and self-driving cars. Dr. Hinton is now at Google, and Dr. LeCun works for Facebook. Dr. Bengio has inked deals with IBM and Microsoft.“What we have seen is nothing short of a paradigm shift in the science,” said Oren Etzioni, the chief executive officer of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence in Seattle and a prominent voice in the A.I. community. “History turned their way, and I am in awe.”Loosely modeled on the web of neurons in the human brain, a neural network is a complex mathematical system that can learn discrete tasks by analyzing vast amounts of data. By analyzing thousands of old phone calls, for example, it can learn to recognize spoken words.This allows many artificial intelligence technologies to progress at a rate that was not possible in the past. Rather than coding behavior into systems by hand — one logical rule at a time — computer scientists can build technology that learns behavior largely on its own.The London-born Dr. Hinton, 71, first embraced the idea as a graduate student in the early 1970s, a time when most artificial intelligence researchers turned against it. Even his own Ph.D. adviser questioned the choice.“We met once a week,” Dr. Hinton said in an interview. “Sometimes it ended in a shouting match, sometimes not.”Neural networks had a brief revival in the late 1980s and early 1990s. After a year of postdoctoral research with Dr. Hinton in Canada, the Paris-born Dr. LeCun moved to AT&T’s Bell Labs in New Jersey, where he designed a neural network that could read handwritten letters and numbers. An AT&T subsidiary sold the system to banks, and at one point it read about 10 percent of all checks written in the United States.Though a neural network could read handwriting and help with some other tasks, it could not make much headway with big A.I. tasks, like recognizing faces and objects in photos, identifying spoken words, and understanding the natural way people talk.“They worked well only when you had lots of training data, and there were few areas that had lots of training data,” Dr. LeCun, 58, said.But some researchers persisted, including the Paris-born Dr. Bengio, 55, who worked alongside Dr. LeCun at Bell Labs before taking a professorship at the University of Montreal.In 2004, with less than $400,000 in funding from the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Dr. Hinton created a research program dedicated to what he called “neural computation and adaptive perception.” He invited Dr. Bengio and Dr. LeCun to join him.By the end of the decade, the idea had caught up with its potential. In 2010, Dr. Hinton and his students helped Microsoft, IBM, and Google push the boundaries of speech recognition. Then they did much the same with image recognition.“He is a genius and knows how to create one impact after another,” said Li Deng, a former speech researcher at Microsoft who brought Dr. Hinton’s ideas into the company.Dr. Hinton’s image recognition breakthrough was based on an algorithm developed by Dr. LeCun. In late 2013, Facebook hired the N.Y.U. professor to build a research lab around the idea. Dr. Bengio resisted offers to join one of the big tech giants, but the research he oversaw in Montreal helped drive the progress of systems that aim to understand natural language and technology that can generate fake photos that are indistinguishable from the real thing.Though these systems have undeniably accelerated the progress of artificial intelligence, they are still a very long way from true intelligence. But Drs. Hinton, LeCun and Bengio believe that new ideas will come.“We need fundamental additions to this toolbox we have created to reach machines that operate at the level of true human understanding,” Dr. Bengio said.Follow Cade Metz on Twitter: @CadeMetz.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThis stock market rally hasn’t been as intense as many others that preceded it.Intensity of each bull marketMore intenseThe darker the shading, the quicker it rose.*3,000S&P 5001,000Scale is logarithmicto show comparablepercentage changes23,652days1+305%4,494days100+582%51,839days+229%103The fivelongest bullmarkets2,954days42,248days+263%+126%1193019401950196019701980199020002010Intensity of each bull marketMore intenseThe darker the shading, the quicker it rose.*3,0001,000S&P 500Scale is logarithmic to showcomparable percentage changes3,652days1,826days+305%100+102%4,494days+582%1,839days+229%102,248daysThe six longestbull markets2,954days+126%+263%1193019401950196019701980199020002010Intensity of each bull marketMore intenseThe darker the shading, the quicker it rose.*3,0001,000S&P 500Scale is logarithmic to showcomparable percentage changes100The six longestbull markets102,954days2,248days1,839days4,494days1,826days3,652days+263%+126%+229%+582%+102%+305%1193019401950196019701980199020002010*The duration of each bull market counts all calendar days. Intensity is measured by the percentage gain for each bull market divided by its number of calendar days. Data is through March 9.Sources: MacroTrends; Yardeni Research; Thomson ReutersBy Karl RussellBy Stephen GrocerTen years ago, when the global financial crisis seemed at its worst, the stock market hit rock bottom.The bull run that has followed now ranks among the greatest rallies of the past century: The S&P 500 has more than quadrupled, adding $17.5 trillion in value, and, of the 11 bull markets since the end of World War II, only the run that ended with the bursting of the dot-com bubble in 2000 tops the current one in duration and returns.But despite the superlatives, this rally’s primary characteristic is how much skepticism it generated. The intensity of gains that defined the stock market bubbles of the 1920s and 1990s never developed. Instead, many investors spent the past decade deriding the rally and anticipating its demise.Bull markets are usually driven by a strengthening economy that fuels corporate profits. But the economic scars of the downturn a decade ago were deep and the recovery slow. For much of the past decade, economic growth remained lackluster; corporate earnings, at least until last year, were uninspiring; and the global economy bounced from one crisis to the next. There was the sovereign debt crisis that wracked the eurozone, concerns about the health of China’s economy and its growing debt load, tumbling oil prices that dragged down energy-sector profits, and, most recently, concerns about global economy and trade.True, the bull market never succumbed to these worries (although it came awfully close more than once). Credit for that goes to the world’s central banks whose efforts to keep interest rates low made bond investments and other alternatives unappealing, and kept fueling the stock buying. This is not to say that investors weren’t excited about some stocks. Investors piled into shares of Alphabet, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft and those four stock had a big effect on the S&P 500, particularly in the last few years. Over the past decade, and factoring in dividends, the four biggest tech companies accounted for 9 percent of the gains in the S&P 500, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices.Top contributors to the bull marketApple1.3.90%Microsoft2.412.JPMorgan Chase3.1.92General Electric4.1.67Wells Fargo5.1.52Johnson & Johnson6.1.33Amazon7.1.30Exxon Mobil8.1.27Share of the S&P 500’s  total return, which includes dividends, over the last decadeI.B.M.9.1.20Chevron10.1.14Pfizer11.1.12Procter & Gamble12.1.12AT&T 13.1.09Bank of America14.1.08Intel15.1.02Philip Morris16.0.95Cisco Systems17.0.93Home Depot18.0.91Alphabet (Google)*19.0.90Coca-Cola20.0.89Top contributors to the bull market1.Apple3.90%Microsoft2.412.3.JPMorgan Chase1.924.General Electric1.675.Wells Fargo1.526.Johnson & Johnson1.337.Amazon1.308.Exxon Mobil1.279.I.B.M.1.20Share of the S&P 500’s total return, which includes dividends, over the last decade10.Chevron1.1411.Pfizer1.1212.Procter & Gamble1.1213.AT&T 1.0914.Bank of America1.0815.Intel1.0216.Philip Morris0.9517.Cisco Systems0.9318.Home Depot0.9119.Alphabet (Google)*0.9020.Coca-Cola0.89Data is through March 5. *Class A shares.Source: S&P Dow Jones IndicesBy Karl RussellWhen it comes to actual performance of their shares, Alphabet and Microsoft gained more than 600 percent over the past decade, while Apple jumped nearly 1,400 percent and Amazon surged nearly 2,600 percent.It wasn’t just the tech companies themselves that fared well. The best-performing bank stock over the past decade was SVB Financial, Silicon Valley’s so-called hometown bank, which rose almost 1,900 percent. For all the attention paid to technology shares though, the honor of best-performing stock in the S&P 500 over the past decade actually goes to Ulta Beauty, the cosmetics retailer. Its shares have surged more than 7,000 percent.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTECH TIPWith a little time, typing and easy-to-use software, you can quickly see your financial picture much more thoroughly and better plan for the future.By J. D. BiersdorferIt’s January and you’ve gone and done it: You’ve resolved to keep better track of your personal finances. But deep down, you’re not sure where to start. Sure, you can buy accounting software, sign up for a service or poke around your bank’s online offerings for money management. But don’t overlook what is probably the best option of all: a simple and free spreadsheet you make yourself.Never used spreadsheet software before and not quite sure what it does? Relax, using it to make a budget is easy, because someone has already done most of the work. Here’s how to get started.First, select an application that can create and edit spreadsheet files. Microsoft Excel has long been a core component of the Microsoft Office suite for Mac and Windows ($70 a year). If you don’t have it already, you can also find versions for Android and iOS or the free basic version that runs in a web browser.Other free or preinstalled spreadsheet programs may already be on your device. Google Sheets (for Android, iOS and web) and Apple’s Numbers software for iOS, macOS and web are two examples.If you don’t care for the offerings from Microsoft, Google or Apple, there are alternatives. Apache OpenOffice has a Calc spreadsheet program, as does LibreOffice, and both are free open-source suites that run on Windows, Mac and Linux systems. And there are plenty of other options in the app stores if you want to shop around.Spreadsheet programs for home computers have been around for 40 years, giving developers plenty of time to make them more intuitive. Most have a version of the “personal budget” template — with the spending categories, design and formulas already formatted. Take advantage of them. Just type over the sample numbers with your own information and the software does the math.Open your program of choice and look for the “Template” or “Project” gallery. Select the template that best matches your needs, like “Monthly Home Budget,” to create a new spreadsheet.Don’t see a template that suits you? With a quick search, you can find plenty more to download online, like the selection at BudgetsAreSexy.com, which has specialized templates for those aiming for early retirement, or recent college graduates. The Measure of a Plan personal finance site also has a detailed budget-tracking template that works in Microsoft Excel and Google Sheets. Online video tutorials and software guides can also help you build your own spreadsheets.Once you open a template, you’ll see the boxes (called “cells” in spreadsheet lingo) to fill in your own numbers. Gather up pay stubs, bills, statements and any other forms that show what you made or spent that month.Enter the information into the designated place. Along with your salary, your pay stub should show the money taken out for things like taxes, retirement savings and health insurance. Add in monthly expenses, like phone, credit card and power bills; car loans; gas, insurance, rent and mortgage costs; gym fees; restaurant meals; and shopping sprees.Once you have all your numbers punched into the spreadsheet, you can see two things. First, you have a line-by-line accounting of your finances for the month.Second, most spreadsheet templates give you added totals in your columns for income and expenses, so you can see your cash flow in action. Some templates even include charts to help you better visualize your situation.If using a simple spreadsheet to record your monthly budget inspires you to keep tracking it over the year — or take even more control — you can move up to a dedicated tool that shows spending trends, provides financial coaching and offers tips.Wirecutter, a product review site owned by The New York Times, has a roundup of budgeting apps and tools to recommend, like the YNAB (You Need a Budget) service ($84 a year, but with a free trial period available); Mint.com and others are also reviewed.No doubt, being diligent and updating your chosen budgeting tool takes time and effort, but it pays off. Just think of it as a map to follow the money.J.D. Biersdorfer has been answering technology questions — in print, on the web, in audio and in video — since 1998. She also writes the Sunday Book Review’s “Applied Reading” column on ebooks and literary apps, among other things.  @jdbiersdorfer AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCaroline Grace Marra and Benjamin Caleb Hemani were married April 6 at the Philbrook Museum of Art in Tulsa, Okla. Virginia Lanford Hemani, the mother of the groom who became a minister with American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated.The bride, 30, who was until April 2017 a life sciences consultant in Boston, is now studying for a Ph.D. in health policy and management at Harvard. She graduated from Vanderbilt and received a master of engineering management degree from Dartmouth.She is a daughter of Cinda R. Marra and Mark J. Marra of Tulsa. The bride’s father is a Tulsa-based independent petroleum geologist. Her mother, a longtime grammar schoolteacher in New Jersey and Oklahoma, last taught remedial reading at Jenks High School in Tulsa.The groom, 31, works in Seattle, where he manages the personal venture capital portfolio of Bill Gates, a founder of Microsoft. He graduated from Dartmouth.He is a son of Ms. Hemani of Ipswich, Mass., and Dr. Sadruddin B. Hemani of Newburyport, Mass. The groom’s father is an otolaryngologist in private practice in Newburyport. His mother retired as an Episcopal chaplain at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.The couple met in September 2011 in Hanover, N.H., during the first day of orientation for their master’s program at the Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — A giant six-engine aircraft with the world's longest wingspan completed what company officials called a superb initial flight over California's Mojave Desert, bringing to life a dream held by the late Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen.Stratolaunch Systems Corp. chief executive Jean Floyd said Saturday the aircraft made a "spectacular" landing that was on the mark. Stratolaunch, which was founded by Allen, is vying to be a contender in the market for air-launching small satellites. He died in October."It was an emotional moment for me, to personally watch this majestic bird take flight, to see Paul Allen's dream come to life in front of my very eyes," Floyd told a teleconference briefing.Floyd said that as the plane lifted off, "I did whisper a 'thank you' to Paul for allowing me to be part of this remarkable achievement."The behemoth, twin-fuselage Stratolaunch jet lifted off from Mojave Air and Space Port shortly before 7 a.m. Saturday and climbed into the desert sky 70 miles (112 kilometers) north of Los Angeles. The jet flew 2 ½ hours, achieving a maximum speed of 189 mph (304 kph) and altitudes up to 17,000 feet (5,181 meters), the company said.Test pilot Evan Thomas of Scaled Composites LLC, which built the aircraft, said the flight overall was "fantastic" and for the most part the plane flew as predicted."The airplane very nicely, smoothly rotated and really just lifted off the ground," he said. "It definitely was ready to fly and wanted to fly and climbed out quickly."Thomas said there were "a few little things that were off-nominal but really for a first flight it was spot-on." He did not specify what those things were, and briefing participants did not take questions.The aircraft is designed to carry as many as three satellite-laden rockets at a time under the center of its enormous wing, which stretches 385 feet (117 meters) — a longer wingspan than any other aircraft.At an altitude of 35,000 feet (10,668 meters), the rockets would be released, ignite their engines and soar into space.The advantages of such air-launch systems include being able to use numerous airports and avoid the limitations of fixed launch sites which can be impacted by weather, air traffic and ship traffic on ocean ranges.Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, founded Stratolaunch Systems Corp. in 2011 after emerging in aerospace by funding the development of the experimental air-launched SpaceShipOne, which in 2004 became the first privately built manned rocket to reach space.After Allen's death in October 2018, Stratolaunch dropped plans to develop its own type of rocket engine and a family of launch vehicles, focusing instead on getting the giant plane airborne and launching Northrop Grumman's proven Pegasus XL.The Stratolaunch aircraft emerged from its Mojave hangar for the first time in May 2017 and proceeded through ground tests, including taxiing and rolling down a runway at near-takeoff speeds.Powered by the same type of engines used by Boeing 747s, the aircraft is designed to take off at a maximum weight of 1.3 million pounds (589,676 kilograms). Its twin fuselages — sort of the airplane equivalent of a catamaran — are 238 feet (72.5 meters) long.The previous wingspan leader was Howard Hughes' World War II-era eight-engine H-4 Hercules flying boat — nicknamed the Spruce Goose. Surviving in an aviation museum, it has an approximately 320-foot (97.5-meter) wingspan but is just under 219 feet (67 meters) long.While Stratolaunch calls its aircraft the world's largest, other airplanes exceed it in length from nose to tail. They include the six-engine Antonov AN 225 cargo plane, which is 275.5 feet (84 meters) long, and the Boeing 747-8, which is just over 250 feet (76.3 meters) long.AdvertisementCrowdwiseCreditCreditGraham RoumieuSupported byBy David PogueYou know what the English language needs? A word for the hot, sickening feeling you get when you accidentally hit “Reply All,” subsequently broadcasting a private message to a much larger group. Maybe we should call it e-barrassment. Or forwardboding. Or Sents insensibility.In any case, we asked you to share your best (or worst) Reply All horror stories and how you handled them with us by email or Twitter — and wow, did you come through. Clearly, people who’ve committed this act never forget it.“OK, so I was online dating a lot,” Shirley Goldberg remembered. After each date, she liked to send a summary to her girlfriend. “On the day I hit ‘Reply to All,’ I had four emails open, one of them directed to the entire staff of my school. Somehow I got the emails mixed up.”On this occasion, her summary read: “Met Bob yesterday at the diner for coffee. Nice guy but I’m not interested. He has an overbite and a lisp.”The next day, the other teachers in the lunchroom shot her “quite a few meaningful looks.” One of them accused her of being a “dentalist.”Then there’s the therapist Robyn Renée, who got her text-message threads confused. She wound up texting one of her therapy clients with a message intended for her ex-husband. (The client’s response: “I didn’t realize I made you so angry!”)Bob Pyle and his wife both worked in the same Wall Street firm. One day, he corrected a bunch of typos in a document she had written — and accidentally shared his critique with 200 people in the company. “About an hour later, my boss came into work, passing my door on the way to his office,” he explained, and said, “Sleeping on the couch tonight?”And Erin Weltzien was once part of a group chat whose topic drifted into complaining about a co-worker, Jen, flaunting her “newly enhanced breasts.” The subject promptly changed when the participants read, in the chat window: “This is Jen’s father! Please take me off this list!”Over the years, the perpetrator/victims of Reply All accidents have developed some devious dodges to avoid reputational ruin.When one hapless fellow invited family and friends to come watch him in a glassblowing demonstration, a bad cut-and-paste omitted the word “glass.” The result, wrote his wife, was “a shocking offer.”Her solution: She made him resend a corrected version of the same message four times. Her hope was that the flood of identical emails would minimize the amount of attention attracted by the first one.It worked. “Happily, we never had any responses to the initial rude offering,” she said.Some people resort to deception. Janet Katz told people she was the victim of a computer virus. “I blame a small child — son, niece, nephew, whatever,” Roanne Martin said.Sharyn Tom pointed out that you don’t have to defuse the fallout alone. “Enlist someone you have good rapport with to Reply All to your Reply All, and say something funny to cut the tension, like, ‘Great story, bro, we appreciate the update!’” she suggests. “The other person helps by taking the focus and embarrassment away from you, and pivots into humor or something useful.”In general, though, the wisest course seems to be quick action and a huge helping of humble pie.“I just call it what it is by sending yet another Reply All message like: ‘Well, that was awkward,’” Sheryl Moore wrote. “Usually that is met with kind and understanding replies.”Or, as Cassandra Kiger put it, “You own it, make apologies, spend 48 hours in shame, and move on.”Most people endure a botched Reply All episode only once. After that searing experience, you’re unlikely to make the same mistake again.But you can avoid the fiasco in the first place. Here’s how:Enter the address last. Jeff Branzburg has cultivated the habit of clicking Forward, not Reply, when answering messages. That way, the Address box of every reply starts out empty. “Compose the email, and only then go back and enter the address(es),” he says. This technique requires extra steps, but it guarantees you’ll never accidentally Reply to All.Give yourself an “Oh no!” window. In some email programs, you can set up a freakout delay. Your email will wait 60 seconds (or more) after you click Send, giving you a window in which to realize your gaffe and stop the message in its tracks.You can set this up in Microsoft Outlook or in Gmail. If you’re a Mac person, you need the free version of a plug-in called Mail Butler to add this feature to Apple’s Mail program.“The ‘oh no filter’ gives you enough time to correct errors,” Gerard Stijntjes notes. “I’ve shared it around at work and it is helping.”If Microsoft Outlook dominates your email life, as it does in many organizations, you have three additional safety nets at your disposal:Remove the Reply All button on your end. The Reply All button can’t ruin your life if it doesn’t exist, can it? In Outlook, you can move the button to a remote Siberian outpost on the toolbar so it’s harder to hit by mistake. (Here’s how to do it.)The beauty of this toolbar surgery is that it doesn’t fully deprive you of the Reply to All function. When you really intend to trigger it, you can always choose the equivalent menu command. “Problem solved, as far as I’m concerned,” Andreas Molke noted.Remove the Reply All button on their end. If you and your recipients are all using Microsoft Outlook, you can, weirdly enough, disable their Reply All buttons on messages you send. As @NYG_Steve notes, it’s your way of preventing other people from making Reply All gaffes based on your original message. All you need is the free NoReplyAll add-in for Outlook.Undo send. Lara F. recommends using Microsoft Outlook’s Recall command, which magically deletes a message from the recipients’ Inboxes before they’ve opened it. Alas, it works only when you and you recipients are in the same company (using the same Microsoft Exchange server), you all use Outlook, and each recipient hasn’t yet seen the message.In all other circumstances, this command winds up sending a second email that says, for example, “Casey Robin would like to recall the message, ‘My boss is a toxic, sniveling misanthrope.’” Unfortunately, that message may serve only to draw more attention to the first one.The Reply All button should be considered armed and dangerous. In law firms and government departments, it can transmit confidential information to people who shouldn’t have it. In any company, its use can become a drag on efficiency and sanity. (Every time you send “Thanks!” and “You’re welcome!” emails on a thread of 850 employees, that’s 850 people who must manually delete those messages, usually quietly cursing your name.)Things get really bad when a Reply All storm touches down. That’s when one reply to the entire organization inspires hundreds of people to Reply All with “Please take me off this list” messages, which triggers round after round of “Me too” and “Stop hitting Reply All!” (and “Out of Office” messages, each also going to everyone on the list). The quantity of messages explodes geometrically until the entire outfit is brought to its knees.What email programs need, of course, is some kind of built-in protection against Reply All tragedies. Apple, Microsoft and Google should offer an option that produces an “Are you sure?” message before your message is actually sent.Until then, be careful out there. You don’t deserve this kind of — what’s the right word for it? — humiliation.In the next Crowdwise: Some of the things people say to grieving friends and relatives — “Well, she’s in a better place now,” or “Well, at least you still have other children” — don’t provide comfort, and may actually make things worse. What are some of the worst examples you’ve experienced? And what can people say or do that’s actually helpful? Bonus points if you speak from experience. Email us at crowdwise@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAdd a criminal investigation to the list of technical difficulties and PR disasters. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. Exactly when did Facebook become the Job of internet companies?Just like the beleaguered biblical character who endured woe after woe at God’s behest, this social media giant finds itself repeatedly hit by bad news. The difference is that Job was blameless while Facebook has brought many of these disasters upon itself.The biggest recent blow was a report on Wednesday that federal prosecutors in the Eastern District of New York were conducting a criminal investigation into deals Facebook had made with other companies that gave them access to data, allegedly without the consent of users.Other calamities within the last week alone include a report from the British government accusing Facebook and other companies of hindering consumer choice and stifling innovation and calling for strong regulation; Facebook managing to look as if it was trying to block Senator Elizabeth Warren’s attempt to advertise her plan to break up big tech companies like Facebook on Facebook; its services, including the popular Instagram app, going down around the globe, and on Thursday, the announced departures of Chris Cox, Facebook’s powerful chief product officer, and Chris Daniels, the boss of WhatsApp — a giant neon sign that the company is in pain. I think we can safely say that only Aunt Becky from “Full House” — that would be Lori Loughlin, captain of the college admissions bad parenting squad — is having a worse time this week. The Warren ad mess appears to reflect sloppiness by Facebook — she used its logo without permission in some ads, and the company typically pulls down those fast. They have since been restored. And the breakdown? The company has ruled out an outside attack, so it just looks like some Facebook technical issue.But the other developments are more serious for the company. The 150-page report from the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain calls for giving users the ability to move data to third parties, making that data available to rivals and creating a code of conduct that includes fines for violations.Senator Warren has gone further by calling for both a breakup of business units and also an unwinding of acquisitions.Like Facebook’s purchase of Instagram. Like Facebook’s purchase of WhatsApp. Those.Basically, she is aiming directly at the social giant’s future, which Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, pretty much admitted last week when he wrote a memo about integrating those purchases and shifting the platform to a focus on privacy rather than public sharing.That memo became more interesting to me after The New York Times reported on the new criminal investigation in the Eastern District. Facebook was already lousy with active investigations led by an alphabet of federal agencies including the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well state inquiries and tons of lawsuits. What’s more, federal prosecutors in the Northern District of California are looking into whether Facebook was in fact misled by Cambridge Analytica or if it knew more than it has acknowledged. But that inquiry has been only flirting with the idea of criminal culpability. The new one revealed on Wednesday is a significant escalation for the company.Let’s be clear: This is a criminal investigation, not an oops-we-made-another-sloppy-error one. Which is why Facebook is trying so mightily to lump it in with the other inquiries.“It has already been reported that there are ongoing federal investigations, including by the Department of Justice,” a Facebook representative said in a statement. “As we have said before, we are cooperating with investigators and take these probes seriously. We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions, and pledged that we will continue to do so.”But the Eastern District inquiry is not the same, and this is new and worrisome territory for Facebook.Criminal anything is scary enough, but this news will also have an impact on its management’s ability to concentrate on creating innovative products or buying companies to help it get to the next phase of the always-changing tech game. That is no small thing. As the British report pointed out, there have been 400 acquisitions in tech, none of which has been rejected by regulators. That will surely no longer be the case for Facebook.The departure of the two Facebook managers is also a distraction; the internal situation is looking as unstable as the external. All this is a reminder of what happened almost two decades ago when Microsoft was under investigation for anti-competitive behavior and monopoly practices. Back then, the company was hit by the press and regulators daily, which drastically slowed its momentum.As the accusations piled up, Microsoft lost people’s trust. Of all the consequences that Facebook faces, this would be the most damaging.You can’t calculate trust by coding or algorithms. But Facebook is clearly losing it. Everyone is beginning to assume the worst, even if it is not fair. What’s ironic is that this is all escalating when it’s evident that the management of the company does seem to get that it needs to change and quickly.“Mark knows he is over a barrel,” said one person familiar with Mr. Zuckerberg’s thinking. “That has sunk in very much now.”Good, because such self-reflection has been painfully slow for Mr. Zuckerberg and others at Facebook.This doesn’t mean the situation is hopeless for the company. Despite being seen as the font of all that was bad with tech way back in 2001, Microsoft recovered nicely and is today considered one of tech’s most upstanding citizens. Mr. Zuckerberg may be able to pull something similar off. After all, this is one guy we can be sure didn’t need to bribe his way into Harvard.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian X. ChenSAN FRANCISCO — Google introduced a new video game service on Tuesday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet, joining an industrywide experiment to offer a so-called Netflix of gaming.The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet. The service will also work with Google’s Chromecast, an inexpensive dongle that plugs into television sets to stream videos.Google said Stadia would be released later this year, but did not announce a price.By focusing on streaming games — titles that are pulled from servers instead of downloaded to the customer’s device — Google is trying to catch the next wave of gaming. The premise: users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.There are pros and cons to each approach. The streaming model lets people try lots of games until they find some they enjoy, but the games tend to be superficial with rougher graphics. Downloaded games typically have more polished graphics, but they can take time to install and require a sizable one-time payment.Console makers having been pushing into streaming services. Sony offers a monthly subscription to a service called PlayStation Now with hundreds of titles, while Microsoft said it planned to offer a trial service later this year to stream games to Xbox consoles, computers and mobile devices.But video games still present a significant technical challenge compared with streaming a song or movie because of the amount of data involved and the unpredictability of game play. So the industry has continued to largely revolve around the releases of new game machines from Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo.Google, though, is trying to take a leap beyond that — by starting with no game machine at all.“This new generation of gaming is not a box,” Phil Harrison, a veteran video game industry executive who is leading Stadia for Google, said at the Game Developers Conference, an annual industry event in San Francisco where the service was announced. “We will be handing over the extraordinary power of the data centers to you, the game developers.”Lewis Ward, an IDC analyst that follows the video games industry, said the viability of Google’s online games strategy relied on many factors that had not been addressed. For one, it remains unclear how much the service will cost and how revenue will be shared with game developers. And much of Google’s success will rely on building a library of deep, compelling games, meaning the company must attract game developers of blockbuster franchises like Grand Theft Auto and Red Dead Redemption.“If the catalog that launches this year is overwhelmingly casual PC titles and Android titles, that will be a huge disappointment,” he said. “I don’t think Candy Crush Saga is going to drive up Google data center traffic by a whole lot.”This new service builds on Project Stream, a trial program introduced in October to iron out the kinks of streaming video games. It offered a select group of users the opportunity to play Assassin’s Creed Odyssey, a game that is part of one of the industry’s biggest franchises, over the internet through a Chrome browser.In a demonstration on Tuesday, Google showed a YouTube trailer for Assassin’s Creed Odyssey. A “Play Now” button appeared on the screen, and clicking on it loaded the game in five seconds.Google also demonstrated a Wi-Fi connected game controller with a button to access the company’s artificial-intelligence assistant. A player could, for example, ask for help in defeating a certain level in a game.The company said Stadia would rely on Google’s powerful data centers to do the heavy lifting and let consumers, including those with old, sluggish computers, stream high-quality games immediately.“We are dead serious about making technology accessible for everyone,” said Sundar Pichai, the company’s chief executive.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLOS ANGELES — Vasyl Lomachenko left Ukraine and moved stateside several years ago because he dreamed of fighting for big money in the world's most popular boxing venues.After headlining at Madison Square Garden, in Macau and in several spots around Las Vegas, Lomachenko is going Hollywood on Friday night.Lomachenko (12-1, 9 KOs) risks his two lightweight world titles at Staples Center in downtown Los Angeles when he takes on Britain's Anthony Crolla.Crolla (34-6-3, 13 KOs) is a big underdog against the masterful Lomachenko, whose technique and athleticism have propelled him from two Olympic gold medals to the short list of the world's greatest pound-for-pound fighters.Lomachenko trains outside Los Angeles, and he has already fought in the LA area twice. But he has never appeared in this fight-loving city's most prominent indoor arena, and the mere idea of headlining in such a cavernous venue would have been improbable just a few years ago."It's a very exciting place," Lomachenko said. "After my first (LA) fight at Microsoft Theater, I looked across the street and thought, 'Wow, maybe someday I can get into Staples Center.'"Less than two years after that LA debut in the smaller Microsoft venue, Lomachenko has moved across the street for a title defense he is expected to win with style — and not just because he's wearing an outlandish robe worth a reported $200,000 into the ring.Any opponent under 140 pounds would be an underdog against Lomachenko, but the lack of a theoretically worthy opponent doesn't interest the champion. Until a bona fide challenger to his dominance emerges at 130 or 135 pounds, he will keep racking up wins."I don't care," Lomachenko said with a smirk. "In my fights, I just want to show off my skills. My opponent, whoever. I just want to enjoy it and to put on a good and interesting fight."Lomachenko's next fight was supposed to be a title unification bout with Ghana's Richard Commey, who holds one of the two remaining lightweight belts that Lomachenko covets. But Commey emerged from his bout Feb. 2 with an injured right hand, and Lomachenko elected to stay active by entertaining his mandatory challenger for the WBA crown.While Crolla is widely respected for his toughness and resilience, Lomachenko sometimes seems to be competing in a different sport. His footwork alone inspires rhapsodic appreciation from veteran fight watchers, and his hand speed is similarly peerless.Crolla has watched Lomachenko's bouts with admiration, but he has been fighting for too long to be intimidated."He's the best fighter in the sport, and I'm grateful for this chance," Crolla said. "Even the best fighter in boxing is beatable. Nobody is bigger than the game, so I go into this fight knowing I've got a chance and a strategy to beat him."Crolla is making his U.S. debut, but the Manchester native is likely to have every British athlete's contingent of vociferous stateside fans. Crolla has another advantage, according to Lomachenko."He's very good, and he's in a comfortable position because he has nothing to lose," Lomachenko said.The Staples Center card also includes Mexican star Gilberto "Zurdo" Ramirez making his light heavyweight debut against Tommy Karpency in the co-main event, along with veteran brawler Mike Alvarado facing unbeaten Arnold Barboza Jr.Lomachenko isn't looking beyond Crolla to other fights, partly because no big fight looms. He wants Commey's belt, but the biggest money would come from a showdown with former American lightweight champion Mikey Garcia.But even if Garcia could get over his antipathy toward Top Rank boss Bob Arum — his former promoter and Lomachenko's current promoter — Lomachenko and Garcia probably can't find a common weight. Lomachenko says he is too small for 140 pounds, and Garcia could struggle to get back down to 135 after fighting at welterweight — and getting thrashed by Errol Spence Jr. — last month in Texas.Until money creates the motivation to solve this dilemma, Lomachenko will go on showcasing himself to the world against the best opponents he can find. Crolla is worthy, and Lomachenko is taking him seriously."I get nervous a little before a fight, but when I step in the ring, I'm in my place," Lomachenko said. "I start to enjoy it right away. A couple of rounds, and then I find my moment."___AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBERLIN — Europe's largest technology company SAP aims to more than double its market value to between 250 billion euros and 300 billion euros ($282-$338 billion) by 2023, Chief Executive Bill McDermott told a German newspaper.McDermott said SAP's market capitalisation had increased to 140 billion euros (£120.7 billion) from 45 billion euros since his tenure as CEO began in 2010."Measured on the market valuation of pure cloud service providers, we have potential in our portfolio for a further 90 billion euros in market value," he told Thursday's edition of Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper."By 2023 we plan to increase the market capitalisation to 250 to 300 billion euros," he said.SAP is in the middle of a restructuring plan, announced in January, that includes 4,400 layoffs, as McDermott seeks to transform the company into a digital platform business.The restructuring has lead to a string of high-profile departures with extensive know-how in recent weeks.Shares in SAP have fallen 5 percent over the past week off a six-month high of 104.88 euros set on April 4. It currently has a market capitalisation of 122.35 billion euros ($138 billion), making it Germany's most valuable company.But it lags arch-rival Oracle, which has a market worth of $184.45 billion, and is far behind some of the leading cloud service providers, including Microsoft which has a value of $922 billion.McDermott has promised to treble the size of the cloud business by 2023, bringing total revenues at SAP to 35 billion euros, as it competes with the likes of Oracle and Salesforce.com.He told the paper the restructuring would allow SAP to move people to growth areas, such as its business with artificial intelligence or the Internet of Things."In addition, we are putting every single business unit under scrutiny," he said. (Reporting by Caroline Copley; Editing by Rashmi Aich)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLAS VEGAS — ___Mnuchin says Fed independence is important globallyWASHINGTON (AP) — Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says that the Federal Reserve's independence is important globally, while refusing to comment on President Donald Trump's latest attack on the Fed. Mnuchin was asked about Trump's tweet Sunday that if the Fed had done its job properly, the stock market would be 5,000 to 10,000 points higher and overall growth would have been "well over" 4% last year instead of 3%.___Best Buy names new CEO as Hubert Joly steps downNEW YORK (AP) — Hubert Joly, the CEO who revived Best Buy, plans to step down in June. Joly will remain with company under the new position of executive chairman of the board of directors. He is widely credited with turning around Best Buy starting in 2012 as it faced dwindling sales and foot traffic. He helped the company focus on online sales and expand services. Longtime executive Corie Barry will take over the CEO position and join the board after the annual meeting on June 11.___Microsoft overhauls how it investigates office misbehaviorREDMOND, Wash (AP) — Microsoft is revamping its practices for investigating workplace allegations after a group of women shared stories of discrimination and sexual harassment. CEO Satya Nadella sent a letter to employees about the changes Monday. Nadella says the company is increasing support services for workers who say they've experienced misbehavior, including a new "Employee Advocacy Team" to help guide employees through investigations.___Unions urge Democrats to focus on kitchen table economicsSome people in the labor movement are expressing concerns about whether 2020 Democratic presidential candidates are focused on the issues they care most about. Union officials say the candidates are spending too much time talking about issues like the Senate filibuster and the composition of the Supreme Court. Ted Pappageorge is president of the Las Vegas Culinary Union for 60,000 hotel and casino workers and says Democrats have to "pay attention to kitchen table economics."___Loughlin, Giannulli plead not guilty in college scamBOSTON (AP) — Actress Lori Loughlin, her fashion designer husband Mossimo Giannulli and other prominent parents are pleading not guilty in the college admissions bribery scam. Loughlin and Giannulli said in court documents filed Monday they are waiving their right to appear in court for an arraignment and plead not guilty. The couple and more than a dozen other parents were indicted last week on charges of mail fraud and money laundering conspiracy.___With billions to spend, feds unsure who lacks broadbandWASHINGTON (AP) — A $4.5 billion federal grant program to improve broadband internet access in rural America has been stymied by flawed maps, and a group of U.S. senators is pushing to make sure the government knows where help is needed the most. The Federal Communications Commission has put the program on hold as it investigates the service data submitted by carriers.___Former Volkswagen CEO charged with fraud in GermanyFRANKFURT, Germany (AP) — German prosecutors have indicted former Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn and four others on charges of fraud and unfair competition. They say Winterkorn knew about the deceptive practice of using engine software to manipulate diesel engines' emissions. Winterkorn's lawyers have declined to comment while they review the case files.___S&P 500 falls to rare loss, hurt by weak bank stocksNEW YORK (AP) — Falling bank stocks pulled U.S. indexes lower on Monday, and the S&P 500 fell for just the third time in the last three weeks. Goldman Sachs recorded one of the largest losses in the S&P 500 index after saying it's off to a "muted start to the year," though its earnings for the first quarter still beat analysts' expectations. Still, stocks have enjoyed a hot start to the year and the S&P 500 remains close to its record high.___Pulitzers honor coverage of 3 US mass shootings in 2018NEW YORK (AP) — The South Florida Sun Sentinel and the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette have won Pulitzer Prizes and have been recognized along with the Capital Gazette of Annapolis, Maryland, for their coverage of three horrifying mass shootings at a high school, a synagogue and a newsroom itself. The Associated Press won in the international reporting category for documenting the humanitarian horrors of Yemen's civil war.___Lyft pulls electric bikes off the road after brake problemsNEW YORK (AP) — Ride-hailing giant Lyft has pulled 3,000 electric bikes off the streets after customers complained the bikes were braking too hard. Lyft removed electric bikes from its New York, San Francisco and Washington, D.C., markets. A spokeswoman said Monday that Lyft is aware of reports of injuries, but the company wouldn't specify the number of complaints it received. On Twitter some riders complained of being thrown over the handlebars after hitting the brakes.___The S&P 500 lost 1.83 points, or 0.1%, to 2,905.58. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 27.53, or 0.1%, to 26,384.77, and the Nasdaq composite lost 8.15, or 0.1%, to 7,976.01. The Russell 2000 index of small-cap stocks dropped 5.63, or 0.4%, to 1,579.17.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStephanie Cristina Formas and Stephen Thomas Carter were married Dec. 31. Jenny A. Durkan, who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated at the Brake and Clutch Warehouse, an events space in Dallas.Ms. Formas, 32, is the chief of staff for Ms. Durkan, who is the mayor of Seattle. The bride graduated from Baylor University.She is the daughter of Patty Huber Formas of Waco, Tex.Mr. Carter, 33, is a senior communications manager at Microsoft in Redmond, Wash. He graduated from Whitman College, which is in Walla Walla, Wash.He is a son of Gail Viseltear Carter of Virginia Beach and Donald F. Carter of Seattle.The couple met and began dating in 2012 while working in Washington, both as regional press secretaries, for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe giant social network faces scrutiny of its business practices by numerous federal agencies.By Cecilia KangFacebook now faces investigations into its business practices from a variety of federal agencies. Officials have opened inquiries into possible civil and criminal violations of laws related to privacy, corporate governance and discrimination.Facebook has largely denied wrongdoing in each of the investigations and said it was cooperating with regulators and law enforcement.Here are the agencies looking into Facebook, and some of the issues involved.The top federal watchdog for consumer protection is investigating potential privacy violations by the social network. The inquiry began after reporting by The New York Times on the harvesting of Facebook user data by a political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica. The investigation centers on whether Facebook broke promises it made in a consent decree in 2011, when it said it would tighten protections of user data and explain clearly to users how it handled sensitive data.The company could face more than $1 billion in fines and tighter restrictions over its handling of data.The S.EC. started investigating how much Facebook knew about the data harvested by Cambridge Analytica and if executives of the social network properly disclosed its findings. The agency protects shareholders from being misled by corporations by requiring that executives disclose risks and problems for their business.The Justice Department’s securities fraud division is said to be investigating whether Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained data on Facebook users. It is also investigating if Facebook properly disclosed what it knew about data-sharing with Cambridge Analytica before news reports revealed the practice.Separately, the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York is said to be conducting a criminal investigation into Facebook’s data-sharing partnerships with dozens of tech companies, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony.HUD has sued Facebook on claims that the company engaged in housing discrimination by allowing advertisers to restrict who is able to see ads based on race and other factors. Facebook, which has settled with civil rights groups over allegations of ad-based housing discrimination, is fighting the lawsuit.Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting.Cecilia Kang covers technology and regulatory policy out of Washington. She joined The Times in 2015 after 10 years covering technology and business at The Washington Post.  @ceciliakang AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSHANGHAI — Alibaba Group founder and billionaire Jack Ma has defended the grueling overtime work culture at many of China's tech companies, calling it a "huge blessing" for young workers.The e-commerce magnate weighed into a debate about work-life balance and the overtime hours demanded by some companies as the sector slows after years of breakneck growth.In a speech to Alibaba employees, Ma defended the industry's '996' work schedule, which refers to the 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. workday, six days a week."I personally think that being able to work 996 is a huge blessing," he said in remarks posted on the company's WeChat account."Many companies and many people don't have the opportunity to work 996," Ma said. "If you don't work 996 when you are young, when can you ever work 996?"The issue has fueled an online debate and protests on some coding platforms, where workers have swapped examples of excessive overtime demands at some companies.Ma, a former English teacher who co-founded Alibaba in 1999 and has become one of China's richest people, said he and early employees regularly worked long hours."In this world, everyone wants success, wants a nice life, wants to be respected," Ma said."Let me ask everyone, if you don't put out more time and energy than others, how can you achieve the success you want?"Ma referred to the tech industry today where some people are without jobs, or working at companies in search of revenue or facing closure."Compared to them, up to this day, I still feel lucky, I don't regret (working 12 hour days), I would never change this part of me," he said. This month activists on Microsoft's GitHub, the online code repository site, launched a project titled "996.ICU" where tech workers listed Alibaba among the companies ranked as having some of the worst working conditions. On Thursday, an opinion piece published in a state newspaper argued that 996 violated China's Labor Law, which stipulates that average work hours cannot exceed 40 hours a week."Creating a corporate culture of 'encouraged overtime' will not only not help a business' core competitiveness, it might inhibit and damage a company's ability to innovate," the unnamed author wrote in the People's Daily. (Reporting by Josh Horwitz; editing by Darren Schuettler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe largest tech companies aren’t driving the performance of the market, and that shift doesn’t bode well for a march to new highs. By Stephen GrocerOne by one, the concerns that have hung over the stock market have faded. Fears that the United States economy would dip into a recession this year have eased. The Federal Reserve seems to be finished raising interest rates for the foreseeable future, and optimism has increased that the United States and China could end their trade war.But if the January snap back (it was the best start to a year for stocks in decades, after the worst December for stocks in an even longer period) is to sustain itself, big technology companies likely will have to lead the way. So far this year, they have not done that. For much of the past decade, the fate of the stock market has been tied to the performance of a handful of the largest tech companies: Amazon, Apple, Alphabet, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix led the market from one record to the next.By the end of August, their sway over the direction of the S&P 500 exceeded all but two of the index’s 11 sector groupings. As the index pushed to a record high last summer, the rise in those six companies’ shares accounted for half of its gain. They led on the way down too, dragging the broader market lower over the final three months of 2018 and nearly ending the longest bull market on record.So it’s notable, then, that as the S&P 500 rallied nearly 8 percent in January, the big technology stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the benchmark’s rise, according to data from Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for S&P Dow Jones Indices. What happened? The companies have faced a fundamental question since late last year: Could they continue to pull in new users and generate more sales in a slowing global economy? Sales growth had begun to slow in the second half of 2018 and earnings updates in January haven’t fully resolved investors’ concerns about their trajectory. “This is the first quarter in my memory that technology has on the whole had worse metrics than the S&P 500,” said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute, referring to the earnings and revenue growth rate of big technology companies.After Apple warned of diminishing demand for new iPhones in China earlier this year, its forecast for the current quarter wasn’t as dire as many on Wall Street had feared. The stock has gained 7.7 percent since then. Still, the iPhone maker reported a 15 percent drop in revenue, including a 27 percent decline in China, and its results indicated a difficult road ahead. Its stock remains nearly 30 percent below its peak.Amazon reported record profits and revenue. But its shares were down 5.4 percent Friday in part because revenue from online shopping slowed and the growth of Prime memberships appeared to have plateaued.Microsoft shares have fallen 3.4 percent since it reported on Wednesday. Revenue at the software giant has surged in recent years as its bet on cloud computing has paid off, but there were continued signs that that acceleration could be tapering off.Facebook, whose shares were the most battered among the big tech companies last year, was perhaps the bright spot this earnings season. Despite a string of scandals, the social network generated record revenue and profit last year. Its shares have jumped 10.5 percent since Wednesday.Netflix also said revenue would grow more slowly this quarter. Its stock is down almost 3.8 percent since it reported on Jan. 17.There is a big caveat to all the hand-wringing about slowing growth: All five companies still generate huge revenue. And should Beijing and Washington reach an agreement in the trade war, sales could pick up if the global economy, particularly China’s, begins to gain speed. “There was real concern that tech was the canary in the coal mine of what would be a very dark 2019,” said Daniel Ives, an analyst at Wedbush Securities covering technology companies. “Thus far a lot of those fears are proving overblown. That could set the stage for tech to make new highs this year, depending on what happens with China.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSAN FRANCISCO — Qualcomm Inc on Tuesday unveiled a new chip for speeding up artificial intelligence work, aiming to diversify beyond its stronghold in mobile phone chips and into a fast-growing market now dominated by Nvidia Corp and Intel Corp.At an event in San Francisco, Qualcomm said it plans to begin testing its new Cloud AI 100 chip with partners such as Microsoft Corp later this year, with mass production likely to begin in 2020.Qualcomm's new chip is designed for what artificial intelligence researchers call "inference" - the process of using an AI algorithm that has been "trained" with massive amounts of data in order to, for example, translate audio into text-based requests.Analysts believe chips for speeding up inference will be the largest part of the AI chip market.Nvidia has released special chips for the task and Intel is working with Facebook Inc on one that will be released later this year. Cloud computing vendors such as Amazon.com's Amazon Web Services and Alphabet Inc's Google Cloud unit are also making their own inference chips.All that activity means Qualcomm is entering a crowded field behind its rivals. But Cristiano Amon, Qualcomm's president and the chief of its chip division, said the San Diego company is taking a different approach by aiming to serve the smaller, simpler data centers that are proliferating around the world so that consumers can benefit from faster response times for their internet-connected apps.In order to serve those smaller "edge" data sites, Qualcomm is focusing on AI chips that consume small amounts of electricity and generate little heat - a specialty it developed when making chips for mobile phones, which run on small batteries and live in pockets.Rivals such as Intel and Nvidia make more powerful chips that dominate in centralized data centers that suck up electricity and need complex cooling systems."You can't rely on big [data center] buildings with air conditioning," Amon told reporters at the San Francisco event. "That's our bet - performance per watt leadership."Qualcomm tried before to parlay its mobile chip expertise into data center sales, when it aimed to compete directly with Intel's core business by selling CPU chips based on mobile phone chip technology. That effort has largely been wound down as a cost-cutting measure."I think this is a good start for Qualcomm, but they have a lot to prove in the higher performance accelerator space," said Patrick Moorhead, founder of Moor Insights & Strategy.  (Reporting by Stephen Nellis in San Francisco; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with, you guessed it, the government shutdown, a pledge from Microsoft to address the housing crisis in the Seattle area, and the N.F.L.’s obesity scourge. Two bipartisan groups of lawmakers urged the president on Wednesday to drop his demand that funding for a border wall be included in any measure to end the partial government shutdown, now in its 27th day. Speaker Nancy Pelosi also asked Mr. Trump to delay his Jan. 29 State of the Union address or to deliver it in writing, citing security concerns related to the shutdown. (Read her letter.) Several White House officials said the president had no intention of doing so.Go deeper: Aides say that the president has expressed frustration over the impasse, but that he believes he is playing a strong hand, two of our White House correspondents write.The effects: The shutdown has dimmed the appeal of federal jobs that have long been a route to the middle class.Explainer: Why don’t unpaid federal workers walk off the job? There are several reasons, including the fact doing so would be illegal. Four Americans were among 19 people killed in Syria on Wednesday by a suicide bombing that was claimed by the Islamic State. Two U.S. service members, a civilian employee of the Defense Intelligence Agency and a military contractor died, as well as 10 Syrian civilians and five local fighters.Reaction: The bombing raised new questions about President Trump’s decision last month to order the withdrawal of U.S. forces, declaring that the Islamic State had been defeated.Official remarks: Vice President Mike Pence insisted in a statement that the militant group had been defeated: “We will never allow the remnants of ISIS to re-establish their evil and murderous caliphate — not now, not ever.”Watch: Our video provides a timeline of the U.S. military’s recent involvement in Syria.Prime Minister Theresa May might not have a clear path forward for withdrawing Britain from the European Union, but she still has her job.Lawmakers in Parliament rejected an effort to oust Mrs. May on Wednesday, a day after they soundly defeated her Brexit plan. News analysis: “This is the bizarro world that is British politics,” our correspondent in London writes. “A Groundhog Day in which Mrs. May awakes every day to discover herself in a dire political crisis, and every day survives.”Go deeper: The opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn is a lifelong critic of the European Union, but his Labour Party is mostly pro-Europe. How he exerts influence will shape the Brexit battle.What’s next: Mrs. May is required to return to Parliament by Monday with a Plan B. We outline the possible outcomes before the March 29 deadline.The Seattle area, home to both Microsoft and Amazon, is a potent symbol of the housing crisis and income inequality that has followed the explosive growth of tech hubs. Now Microsoft is trying to help address the problem, lending at subsidized rates to preserve and build middle- and low-income housing. Executives said they hoped the plan would spur other companies to act, adding that the industry had a responsibility to help people left behind in areas transformed by the tech boom.Another angle: In a divided world, businesses have to fill leadership vacuums, the investment manager Larry Fink of BlackRock wrote in his annual letter to chief executives. Our DealBook columnist looks at the political and moral pressures executives face.In the past few decades, the N.F.L.’s emphasis on the passing game and quarterback protection has led teams to stock their offensive and defensive lines with ever-larger men. With the encouragement of their coaches, many weigh well over 300 pounds. That heft can give some players multimillion-dollar deals — but it leaves many prone to health problems in retirement, with higher rates of hypertension, obesity and sleep apnea. No “concrete steps” to denuclearize: Vice President Mike Pence said on Wednesday that North Korea had failed to take any substantive measures to give up nuclear weapons, even as President Trump is considering a second meeting with the country’s leader.Huawei investigation: Federal prosecutors are investigating possible intellectual property theft by the Chinese technology giant, according to two people familiar with the case.Michigan State resignation: The university’s interim president, John Engler, will step down after saying that some sexual abuse victims of the former university and U.S.A. Gymnastics doctor Lawrence Nassar enjoyed “the spotlight.”Snapshot: Above, Rafael Nadal signed autographs (including on an oversize tennis ball) in front of a digital billboard after his victory against Matthew Ebden at the Australian Open on Wednesday. In memoriam: John Bogle built Vanguard into a $4.9 trillion mutual fund company on the belief that the market couldn’t consistently be outsmarted. He died Wednesday at 89.Late-night comedy: President Trump hasn’t hit the links since before the shutdown began, which gave Jimmy Kimmel an idea about ending the impasse: “I know what you care about down to the bottom of your Kentucky-fried little heart,” he said. “And that is golf.”What we’re reading: This essay in Curbed. “Jami Attenberg learned how to survive in New York,” writes Jennifer Jett, an editor in Hong Kong. “Moving to New Orleans in her 40s was about learning how to thrive.”Cook: This classic chicken piccata uses lemons in two ways.Watch: Two documentaries chronicling the disastrous Fyre Festival are coming out this week. Our critic  says one is good, the other better.Go: New York art galleries have a lot on offer this week, including Karl Haendel’s punch lines and Harold Haliday Costain’s photographs.Read: Matt Zoller Seitz and Alan Sepinwall’s “The Sopranos Sessions,” a collection of interviews and essays to mark the 20th anniversary of the show, is new on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists.Smarter Living: The British designer Anya Hindmarch likes “artful disarray,” but she is ruthless about decluttering. Among her favorite tools: the label maker. She has  kits, including “Cables and Chargers,” “Sunscreen” and an “In Flight” case with airplane comforts and loose change in various currencies.And we look at a new study that suggests a hormone released during exercise may improve brain health and lessen the damage of dementia.The Colorado Cowboy Poetry Gathering celebrates its 30th anniversary this weekend, and the 35th National Cowboy Poetry Gathering in Nevada will take place this month.So what defines cowboy poetry?“If it talks about agriculture or the Western way of life, horses, cattle — it counts,” said Bob Welch, a former editor of American Cowboy magazine.He added, “If the author has a mustache, that certainly helps.”(Women do participate, but the field remains dominated by men.)The tradition dates from cattle-drive days after the Civil War, when cowhands passed time inventing ballads about their work.It entered the modern era through people like Baxter Black, a former large-animal veterinarian who wrote lyrics on long drives  — and went on to sell over a million books.“I would say the people who participate, 90 percent of them have some connection to livestock,” Mr. Black said.That wouldn’t surprise Mr. Welch: “Since the beginning,” he said, “cowboys have been romantics.”That’s it for this briefing. Today’s print edition of The Times includes a special section about the women of the 116th Congress that the briefing featured this week. The section, which will be delivered to home subscribers and is available on newsstands, comes with 27 different covers.See you next time.— ChrisThank youInyoung Kang helped compile today’s briefing. Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson contributed the cultural recommendations, the best-seller lists and the Smarter Living tips. Gregory Cowles, the Book Review’s poetry editor, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode features Representative Will Hurd, Republican of Texas, who disagrees with President Trump’s call for a border wall.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Margarita garnish (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times Magazine has run a weekly poem since 2015.  Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBEIJING — Chinese technology workers are protesting online against grueling overtime hours at some companies, a rare push back against the work culture in the country's tech industry. The posts on Microsoft's GitHub, which calls itself the world's largest code host, and other programming tools have gone viral amid large-scale layoffs in the sector. The protest is aimed at the industry's "996" work culture, which refers to the 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. workday, six days a week. An anonymous activist launched project "996.ICU" on GitHub last week where workers share examples of excessive overtime and vote for the top blacklisted companies as well as firms with better working conditions. "What's the difference between these 996 companies and the old landlords who oppressed peasants???" said one post. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, JD.com Inc and drone maker DJI Technology Co Ltd were among the blacklisted firms. Alibaba did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Friday, a public holiday in China.A DJI spokesman said the company does not discuss specific employment issues, but it has "a firm commitment to treating our employees with the highest respect and providing a healthy working environment."A spokesman for JD.com declined to comment."996.ICU" was Github's most book-marked project on Friday with over 176,000 followers. The campaign against 996 work culture went viral on Weibo, drawing thousands of responses on China's version of Twitter.Some locally developed browsers this week barred access to the anti-996 GitHub repository, citing legal reasons.The anti-996 campaign is the latest example of activists demanding better work conditions and supporting calls for greater union representation at a time of slowing economic growth.Katt Gu, law and regulatory consultant at Shanghai-based tech startup Dimension, called the 996 campaign a turning point."It's a time to punish those big evil companies who are not protecting their employees' rights," she said. Gu and Dimension chief executive Suji Yan have published an "Anti-996" open source license which would potentially bar a company from accessing open source software if it did not comply with local labor laws.They said the license would be tough to enforce, but could give employees a new way to raise concerns about working conditions."The programmer group is very civilized and educated," Gu said, adding they did not have political goals."It's really a tender and soft way, and an effective way to fight for their rights." (Reporting by Cate Cadell; Additional reporting by Andrew Galbraith in SHANGHAI; editing by Darren Schuettler)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriIts wingspan is longer than a football field. The tail is 50 feet from the ground. It was made by reassembling parts from two used Boeing jetliners.On Saturday, the world’s largest airplane took flight for the first time.The twin-fuselage plane, called the Stratolaunch, flew for about two and a half hours over the Mojave Desert in Southern California, reaching a speed of 189 miles per hour and an altitude of 17,000 feet in its maiden voyage, the Stratolaunch team said.“The flight itself was smooth, which is exactly what you want the first flight to be,” Evan Thomas, a test pilot with Scaled Composites who flew the Stratolaunch, said at a news briefing. “And for the most part, the airplane flew as predicted, which is again exactly what we want.”The vessel, the largest plane by wingspan, is designed to carry rockets to blast commercial satellites into space. The company is betting that doing so would be more efficient than launching them from the ground, which is an approach of several other space-minded companies.Paul G. Allen, a founder of Microsoft, funded the project and announced plans for Stratolaunch in 2011. Mr. Allen died in October, prompting questions about the initiative’s future. The company declined to say how much the project cost.Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.In August, Stratolaunch said it was developing a “family of launch vehicles” that could be deployed from the plane to carry satellites. But in January the company scaled back those efforts.There have been concerns about how Stratolaunch’s business will work once it takes on customers, with some questioning whether a trend toward smaller satellites would dampen demand for such a large plane.Even so, the flight on Saturday was billed as a milestone and an engineering marvel.“All of you’ve been very patient and very tolerant over the years waiting for us to get this big bird off the ground, and we finally did it,” Jean Floyd, chief executive of Stratolaunch, said at the briefing.The team on Saturday checked the plane’s handling, and tested rolls and yaws.Mr. Thomas said there were a “few little things that were off nominal” but the company did not immediately specify what those were.“The airplane felt really nice on the touchdown, gear felt good,” Mr. Thomas said. “We had a couple of corrections to line up in the slowdown and ended up rolling to a stop pretty much where we wanted to coming off the runway.“So it was overall fantastic.”Stratolaunch said that by launching rockets from the air, it can “circumvent bad weather, air traffic and other variables that cause delays with traditional ground launches.”Executives have also said the plane can easily move to areas that are better suited for launching satellites into certain orbits, although it needs a landing strip that can handle its great size.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAfter Uber sold its operations in the region to Grab last year, the company’s transport revenue doubled. Its food delivery revenue grew 45 times.By Raymond ZhongSHANGHAI — As Uber and Lyft prepare to become the world’s first publicly traded ride-hailing companies, their peers overseas are continuing to raise huge amounts of money through private investments. Grab, which is based in Singapore and serves eight countries in Southeast Asia, announced on Wednesday that it had secured nearly $1.5 billion from the SoftBank Vision Fund, the technology investing arm of the Japanese conglomerate. With this latest funding, Grab said it had raised more than $4.5 billion in its current financing round from investors that include Toyota, Hyundai, Microsoft and Booking Holdings, the online travel services company. Grab is now valued at around $14 billion, according to a person briefed on the matter who was not authorized to speak publicly.The seven-year-old company’s diverse roster of backers is an indication of the breadth of its ambitions. Grab hopes that people will use its app not only to get from place to place, but also to order meals, send packages, pay for things offline and book hotel rooms, among other tasks.Last year, Grab acquired Uber’s Southeast Asia operations, a move aimed at expanding its presence in both food delivery and rides. Grab said that from last March, when the tie-up with Uber was announced, to the end of the year, its transport revenue almost doubled, while its food-delivery revenue grew 45 times.The “super-app” concept is already well established in China. WeChat drew in users with its messaging and social media capabilities, but is now just as important as a tool for making payments, playing games and signing into gyms. Meituan, which began life as a Groupon-like service for buying vouchers from local merchants, branched out into takeout delivery, bike rentals, movie tickets and a host of other services. Grab’s main rival in Southeast Asia, Go-Jek, has also made its name catering to a variety of needs within its app.The new pile of cash from SoftBank deepens the Japanese investor’s stakes in the worldwide ride-hailing industry. It made a first big bet on Grab in 2017, and has invested in Uber, Didi Chuxing of China and Ola of India.Raymond Zhong is a technology reporter. Prior to joining The Times in 2017, he covered India's fast-moving economy from New Delhi for The Wall Street Journal.  @zhonggg AdvertisementThe American-led campaign against Huawei hung over the giant tech conference in Barcelona. But most attendees were focused instead on new mobile phones and ultrafast wireless networks.The T-Mobile stand showing off 5G technology that has been the star in this edition of the Mobile World Congress.CreditCreditSupported byBy Adam SatarianoPhotographs by Edu BayerBARCELONA, Spain — The Trump administration sent a delegation to Spain this week to make its case against the Chinese technology company Huawei at one of the world’s biggest tech trade shows. But the event, called MWC Barcelona, ended up being favorable ground for the Chinese maker of telecom equipment. Of the more than 100,000 attendees and 2,400 companies at the event, most ignored the efforts by the United States to impose a ban against Huawei for security and surveillance risks. Instead, they chose to focus on the coming introduction of long-hyped next-generation wireless networks, known as 5G, not to mention new foldable smartphones, robots and other internet-connected devices.For Huawei, the enormous conference provided a much-needed opportunity to make a show of force after months of being on the defensive about the American-led campaign. The company, accused of being an instrument of spying for the Chinese government, was ubiquitous in Barcelona. Huawei had the biggest and most popular booth, which looked like a sprawling indoor city that took up half of a convention hall. The booth featured a demonstration area for its new smartphones, an Instagram-ready digital pond, and a roaming robot. Its outdoor picnic area was catered with Iberian ham, Chinese meat buns, fresh fish and Mediterranean salads. Even the lanyards worn by conference attendees were Huawei-branded. MWC Barcelona is akin in scope and hype to the annual CES show in Las Vegas, one of the world’s largest consumer electronics events. MWC Barcelona fills eight conference halls with loud, sensory-overloading booths from companies including Samsung, Sony, Xiaomi, Microsoft, Nokia and Ericsson. While overwhelmingly male, the event is more diverse than most tech conferences, with people from countries around the world attending. Walking around you heard people speaking English, Chinese, Korean, Japanese, Spanish, Italian and Arabic.On Tuesday, after Huawei’s chairman, Guo Ping, used a keynote speech to give a full-throated defense of the company, it hosted one of the week’s biggest parties on the grounds of a stadium that was used during the 1992 Olympics. American officials were left to hold a hastily called news conference on Tuesday at a booth operated by the Spanish government. They didn’t present any new evidence against Huawei. The conference previewed many of the hottest mobile trends, particularly the capabilities of new hyperfast 5G networks. For years, the technology has had more promise than actual uses. Executives said the faster networks would debut this year, with wider adoption coming in 2020 and beyond. To show the utility of 5G, the Chinese company ZTE programmed a band of industrial robots to play piano and drums at the event to illustrate how the ultrafast networks can be used by heavy machinery. Flight simulators, car-racing games, drones and internet-connected beer kegs were also available for testing. Jonathan Davidson, a senior vice president at wireless equipment provider Cisco Systems, said 5G was ready for prime time, and would enable new applications in augmented reality, health care and industrial factories. “We’re now moving into an era where 5G has 10 times the amount of bandwidth available,” Mr. Davidson said. “That changes the equation.” Makers of mobile phones are counting on 5G to ignite growth. Last year, smartphone sales fell for the first time since Steve Jobs introduced the iPhone in 2007. Long a reliable engine of growth in the tech industry, smartphone demand is now sputtering. People are holding on to their devices longer, and there aren’t many new markets where smartphones aren’t already prevalent. More than five billion people worldwide now subscribe to a mobile phone plan, according to GSMA, the industry trade group. Following Apple’s lead, many companies introduced new handsets at MWC Barcelona with prices that a few years ago would have seemed unfathomable. In Barcelona, Samsung showed its previously announced $2,000 Fold handset with a bendable display. Huawei has introduced a competing foldable device, called the Mate X, which will cost about $2,600 and be available around the middle of the year outside the United States. “People are demanding more from their phones,” said Maxime Guirauton, a marketing director for Samsung in Europe. “Innovation comes at a price.” Microsoft introduced a new augmented reality headset, HoloLens 2, which costs $3,500 and is targeted more at businesses than general consumers. People formed long lines to try the gear, including using the goggles in a demonstration to fix water-sanitation equipment. Google also had a large presence at the show, with its Android software powering the noteworthy new handsets unveiled in Barcelona. The internet company scattered people around the conference dressed in white jumpsuits to help show off the Google Assistant virtual assistant. Standing at the Samsung booth, Carolina Milanesi, an industry analyst with Creative Strategies, said it was hard to judge how new products introduced this week would fare with customers. Success for gadgets such as a foldable phone will depend on whether there are applications that people are eager to use. “That’s what’s going to determine whether this is a niche, a fad or mass market,” she said. [Read our review of the new Galaxy S10 Plus phone from Samsung.]AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund LeeOn the internet, conspiracy theories, propaganda and plain old inaccuracies can stump even the most thoughtful readers, spreading faster than you can say “fake news.”A small start-up, NewsGuard, says it may have a solution. The effort is led by a pair of veteran news executives — Steven Brill, an author and the founder of the magazine The American Lawyer, and Gordon Crovitz, a former publisher of The Wall Street Journal. On Wednesday the company announced that it had signed Microsoft as its first major client.NewsGuard has created the equivalent of nutrition labels for news organizations, rating more than 2,000 news and information sites with tags: red for unreliable, green for trustworthy. A team of roughly 50 journalists and analysts is making the evaluations.NewsGuard has given its stamp of approval to established publications like The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, as well as later entrants like BuzzFeed and Newsmax. FoxNews.com, The Hill, The Daily Beast and HuffPost have also gotten green lights.Sites to watch out for, according to NewsGuard, include Infowars and Breitbart on the right, and Daily Kos on the left. Media Matters, a left-leaning advocacy organization with a prolific media-watchdog blog, has received a green rating, but scores negatively on four of the nine criteria used by NewsGuard.The start-up hopes to become a regular part of the reading experience on the web. Its premise is that it is more efficient to rate news organizations than the endless stream of articles rolled out each hour.The service, free to readers, offers a browser extension that shows a news operation’s rating when a reader lands on its site. The NewsGuard tag also appears in search results next to article links for those who have the extension.“The point is to make this ubiquitous,” Mr. Brill said in an interview.To make money, the company has pitched major technology companies to license its software and incorporate its ratings into their services. The first major tech player to sign on is Microsoft, which has agreed to install the system onto its mobile browser, NewsGuard said.The venture is not Mr. Brill’s first go-round on the media beat. In 1998, he founded the monthly magazine Brill’s Content, which chronicled how the journalism sausage got made until it closed in 2001.He acknowledged that, for now, NewsGuard’s analysis lacked the distribution to have a major effect, but a Gallup survey funded by the Knight Foundation suggested that independent ratings can change how people consume news. Readers who participated in the poll were less likely to share headlines that were flagged as potentially misleading. (The Knight Foundation is also an investor in NewsGuard.)NewsGuard has raised about $6 million at a valuation of around $20 million. Its biggest corporate backer is Publicis, an advertising holding company.Both founders said they were surprised, at first, by the advertising industry’s interest in their project. “For them, it’s the whole problem of fake news being an issue for ‘brand safety,’” Mr. Brill said. “I hadn’t even heard that term until we looked out for investors.”Last year, some advertisers fled YouTube after they noticed their messages were appearing alongside videos promoting terrorists. And while they haven’t abandoned Facebook, marketers are requesting more data to make sure their brands aren’t being associated with questionable content.Facebook has become a flash point for the spread of false reports. To combat media pollution, the company has worked with fact checkers and has enlisted third-party groups, including The Associated Press, Snopes and PolitiFact, to make evaluations. Still, it can take up to three days for Facebook to verify content — which has little or no effect, in most cases, since articles go viral in minutes.Facebook and other social networks have not signed on with NewsGuard, but Mr. Brill and Mr. Crovitz anticipate that some kind of ratings service will eventually be adopted across the web. And despite their positioning as a nutrition label for news, they said no one should interpret their work as an endorsement for some kind of media equivalent to the Food and Drug Administration.“We’d be very uncomfortable if the government were mandating anything with regard to news,” Mr. Crovitz said. “That would violate free speech values. You have the First Amendment.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Steve LohrTwo hallmarks of American economic policy under President Trump are a reflexive aversion for regulation and go-it-alone nationalism.But in technology policy, that stance is changing.In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.“There is a real desire in the United States to see leadership at the federal level,” said David Redl, a senior Commerce Department official helping to guide the administration’s privacy effort.On both issues, the administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” said Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission, who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft. “It certainly has been welcome.”The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate.China — which is not a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development — has gone its own way, using personal data and artificial intelligence as tools of a government-backed surveillance state. If the United States were another digital island, experts warn, there would be a real danger of a fragmented global marketplace.Privacy can be seen as the first step toward regulating artificial intelligence more broadly. Vast volumes of data, often personal information, are the fuel of modern A.I. systems.Several American states, led by California, have passed or proposed privacy laws, threatening to fragment the marketplace in the United States, too. They are following Europe, where a sweeping privacy law took effect in May, harnessing the popular backlash against American tech giants like Facebook and Google.“Europe is saying, ‘We’re in charge,’ defining the global rules in the next iteration of the digital economy,” said Daniel Weitzner, a researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was a policy adviser in the Obama administration.The new European privacy law, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, lets people request their data online, restricts how businesses obtain and handle information, and opens a door to class-action-style lawsuits and huge fines.Just how strict or effective enforcement will be remains to be seen. But other nations are adopting similar rules, and tech companies are retooling their data-handling software to comply. Last year, Europe and Japan agreed to allow personal data to flow freely between the two economies, since Japan’s rules were deemed the equivalent of Europe’s.Mounir Mahjoubi, the French secretary of state for digital affairs, pointed to the European-Japanese pact as the “first impact worldwide” of the European standard.Mr. Redl of the Commerce Department said the administration had been prompted to seek a new privacy law by action in Europe and state legislatures. Though it has solicited public comments, the administration has not yet drafted a proposed law, and passage would require bipartisan support in Congress.But the goal, Mr. Redl said, is a federal law that will “harmonize” data privacy rules in the United States and mesh enough with the European standard to avoid a more splintered marketplace.One sign of the administration’s more cosmopolitan approach to technology policy was a small, private forum on “industries of the future” at the White House in early December. Most of the guests were tech company leaders, including Sundar Pichai of Google, Satya Nadella of Microsoft and Ginni Rometty of IBM.At that session, White House technology advisers discussed the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s artificial intelligence guidelines and the importance of shaping the outcome. That impressed the tech executives as a newfound embrace of international engagement, according to a person briefed on the meeting, who would speak only anonymously.The White House confirmed that its side had brought up the organization’s guidelines at the meeting. In February, President Trump signed an executive order on artificial intelligence that called for not only more investment but also regulation to “foster public trust in A.I. systems.”In a statement last week, Michael Kratsios, deputy assistant to the president for technology policy, said, “We’re focused on promoting an international environment that supports A.I. research and development and ensures the technology is developed in a manner aligned with our nation’s core civil liberties and freedoms.”The administration’s emphatic cooperation on artificial intelligence guidelines contrasts with an earlier arms-length wariness of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. In 2017, for example, the administration, given its nationalist trade agenda, insisted that the term “free trade” not appear in a ministerial statement, according to two people involved in drafting the language, who would speak only on the condition of anonymity.The organization’s A.I. initiative has involved meetings and presentations around the world. Groups from engineers to human rights activists are represented on the advisory panels that help draft recommendations, which are tentatively scheduled for ministerial approval in May.Their guidelines are “soft law” — suggestions, not requirements. But the Paris-based organization has a track record of influencing global policy.The most recent, eight-page draft lays out rights and responsibilities. Those responsible, it says, include any individual or organization that makes or operates A.I. technology — and these “A.I. actors” should do systematic risk assessments of “privacy, digital security, safety and bias.”People affected by an A.I.-generated prediction or recommendation, it says, should have the right to challenge the outcome “based on plain and easy-to-understand information” on how an automated decision was made.The draft recommendations call for global A.I. standards that are “trustworthy” and allow for data to flow fairly freely across borders so that it is “interoperable.” The latter is a vital point for the American side. National laws and approaches will differ, they say, but they should not hobble the global data economy.No one is entirely satisfied in the collective, give-and-take of developing guidelines. Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a nonprofit digital rights research and advocacy group, is one of the expert advisers. He is a champion of more forceful guidelines like a prohibition on Chinese-style scoring of individuals based on their personal information and online behavior.But Mr. Rotenberg described the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s effort as “the right synthesis to pursue,” combining “economic development and a fundamental human right to privacy.” The guidelines, he said, should be “a very important policy framework.”Steve Lohr covers technology and economics. He was a foreign correspondent for a decade, and in 2013, he was part of the team awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting. Follow him on Twitter: @SteveLohr.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Facebook Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google unit on Tuesday defended their efforts to remove hate speech from social media sites amid questions from lawmakers in an appearance before the U.S. House Judiciary Committee.Representative Jerrold Nadler, who chairs the panel, said white nationalist groups target communities of color and religious minorities through social media."Efforts by media companies to counter this surge have fallen short, and social network platforms continue to be used as ready avenues to spread dangerous white nationalist speech," Nadler said at the hearing.Social media firms use algorithms and human reviewers to remove hateful speech.In March, the chair of the House Homeland Security committee wrote top executives of Facebook, Google, Twitter Inc and Microsoft Corp, urging them to do a better job of removing violent political content following the live-streaming of a New Zealand mass shooting. Neil Potts, a public policy director at Facebook, told lawmakers that Facebook in March "instituted a prohibition on praise, support, and representation of white nationalism and white separatism."Google wants to be a "part of the solution," company executive Alexandria Walden said at Tuesday's hearing, adding that Google has invested "heavily in machines and people to quickly identify and remove content that violates our policies against incitement to violence and hate speech."Google's YouTube, which streamed the hearing live, disabled comments on the hearing after numerous hateful and racist postings.In November, the FBI said U.S. hate crimes jumped 17 percent in 2017, with a 37 percent spike in anti-Semitic attacks.Ellen Hershenov, senior vice president for policy at Anti-Defamation League, told lawmakers the "internet is forcing us to reassess our understanding of how violence may be inspired by such hateful echo chambers."Representative Doug Collins, the top Republican on the panel, denounced white nationalism. "Free expression, free press and blind justice," he added, are "the very things that foster diversity and deter intellectually bankrupt ideologies like white nationalism."In response to suggestions social media companies discriminate against conservative viewpoints, Potts said Facebook errs "on the side of allowing more speech.""We want to give people the voice but we do have to draw a line somewhere," he noted.Representative Cedric Richmond, a Democrat, said it was important to prevent social media users from preying on weak people to incite violence."Just because you are upset with your station in life, and sitting in your momma's basement in your boxers you don't get to spew hate that you know will incite violence because you can hide behind anonymity," Richmond said. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by Richard Chang)Advertisement
MARCH 11, 2019
Cables de internet en uso para 2021
Por ADAM SATARIANO Gráficos por KARL RUSSELL, TROY GRIGGS y BLACKI MIGLIOZZI  Fotografías por CHANG W. LEE
Internet consiste en pequeños pedazos de código que se mueven por el mundo, que viajan por cables tan delgados como un pelo desperdigados por todo el suelo oceánico. Los datos atraviesan así de Nueva York a Sídney y de Hong Kong a Londres en el mismo tiempo en que tú lees esta palabra.Casi 1,2 millones de cables conectan a los continentes para satisfacer nuestra demanda insaciable por las comunicaciones y el entretenimiento en línea. Las compañías usualmente juntan sus recursos para colaborar en los proyectos de cables submarinos, como si fuera una autopista que todos deben compartir.Pero ahora Google quiere hacer su propio camino en un proyecto inédito para conectar Estados Unidos con Chile, sede del mayor centro de datos de la empresa en América Latina.“La gente cree que los datos están en la nube, pero no”, dijo Jayne Stowell, quien supervisa la construcción de los proyectos de cableado submarino de Google. “Están en los océanos”.Llevar los datos ahí es un proceso cansado y preciso. Hay una embarcación de 140 metros de longitud llamada Durable que después llevará ese cableado al mar. Pero primero esos cables tienen que ser ensamblados en una fábrica en Newington, Nuevo Hampshire. La fábrica, de la empresa SubCom, está repleta de maquinaria especializada que es utilizada para mantener tenso el cable y revestirlo en material protector.Los cables empiezan como un conjunto de hebras hechas de minihilos de fibra de vidrio. Los láseres llevan los datos a las hebras casi a la velocidad de la luz con tecnología de fibra óptica. Así, cuando los cables tocan tierra y se conectan a una red existente, es como los datos requeridos para leer un correo o abrir un sitio web llegan a nuestros dispositivos.Muchos de nosotros ahora vivimos la experiencia del internet con wifi y planes de servicio telefónico celular, pero esos sistemas se vinculan en algún punto con los cables físicos que mueven con rapidez la información por los continentes y alrededor de los océanos.En el proceso de manufactura los cables se mueven por molinos de alta velocidad del tamaño de motores de reacción que envuelven el cable con un revestimiento de cobre que lleva la electricidad por toda la línea para que los datos se sigan moviendo. Dependiendo de dónde va a quedar ubicado el cable, se le añaden plástico, acero y brea para que pueda sobrevivir en ambientes oceánicos impredecibles. Cuando los cables quedan terminados son del grosor de una manguera de jardín casera.Se requiere de un año de planeación para establecer la ruta del cableado de modo que evite los diversos peligros submarinos, pero aun así los cables se enfrentarán a corrientes fuertes, desplazamientos de piedras, terremotos e interferencia de barcos rastreros. Se espera que cada cable dure veinticinco años.Hay una cinta transportadora, que el personal llama la Autopista de Cables (Cable Highway), que lo mueve de la fábrica directo al Durable, embarcado en el río Piscataqua. El barco después lleva al mar unos 6400 kilómetros de cable, que pesa unas 3500 toneladas cuando está completamente cargado.Dentro del barco los trabajadores enrollan el cable hacia tanques cavernosos. Una persona mueve ese cable en un círculo, como si fuera a guardar la manguera del jardín enorme, mientras otras personas se acuestan para revisar que el cable se quede en su lugar sin enredarse y así evitar que se formen nudos. Son equipos que trabajan todo el día y aun así les toma cuatro semanas lograr que todo el cableado necesario para el mar abierto quede dentro del Durable.El primer cable transatlántico fue completado en 1858 para conectar Estados Unidos con el Reino Unido. La reina Victoria conmemoró la ocasión con un mensaje al entonces presidente estadounidense, James Buchanan, que tardó dieciséis horas en transmitirse.Desde entonces se han inventado diversas tecnologías inalámbricas y de tecnología satelital, pero los cables siguen siendo la manera más rápida, eficiente y barata de enviar información por los océanos. Pero incluso así no es taaan barata: Google no reveló el costo de su proyecto en Chile, pero los expertos dicen que los proyectos submarinos cuestan hasta 350 millones de dólares, según el largo del cable.En la era moderna las compañías de telecomunicaciones tendieron casi todo el cableado, pero en la última década los gigantes tecnológicos de Silicon Valley tomaron las riendas. Google ha invertido en unos catorce cables a nivel global. Amazon, Facebook y Microsoft tienen inversiones en otros que conectan sus centros de datos en América del Norte, del Sur, Asia, Europa y África, de acuerdo con la firma de análisis TeleGeography.Los países ven en los cables submarinos una infraestructura crítica y los proyectos incluso han quedado en el centro de disputas geopolíticas. En 2018, Australia trabajó para bloquear a la compañía tecnológica china Huawei en la construcción de un cable que conectaría a Australia con las islas Salomón por el temor de que con ello el gobierno chino pudiera intervenir las redes de la nación oceánica.Proveedores de contenido como Microsoft, Google, Facebook y Amazon ahora son dueños o arriendan más de la mitad del ancho de banda submarino.Porcentaje del ancho de bandasubmarino internacional en uso100%OtrosPrincipalesconexiones web/p>
		50%Proveedoresde contenido0’02’06’10’14’18100%OtrosPrincipalesconexiones webPorcentaje del ancho de bandasubmarino internacional en uso50%Proveedoresde contenido0’02’06’10’14’18El capitán Yann Durieux dijo que una de sus principales responsabilidades es mantener la moral de la tripulación en las semanas que pasan en el mar para el tendido. Construir la infraestructura de nuestro mundo digital es muy laborioso.El Durable, con 53 habitaciones y 60 baños, puede albergar hasta ochenta tripulantes. El equipo se divide en turnos de doce horas. Hay señalizaciones para guardar silencio en los pasillos porque siempre hay alguien durmiendo.La embarcación lleva suficientes suministros para estar en altamar unos sesenta días: alrededor de doscientas hogazas de pan, 100 galones de leche, quinientos cartones de una docena de huevos, 500 kilogramos de pollo y 800 kilos de arroz. Hay trescientos rollos de toallas de papel, quinientos rollos de papel sanitario, setecientas barras de jabón y casi 300 kilos de detergente de ropa. No se permite tener bebidas alcohólicas a bordo.“Todavía me mareo”, dijo Walt Oswald, técnico que lleva veinte años tendiendo cables desde barcos. Usa un parche detrás el oído que le ayuda con las náuseas. “No es para todos”.El mal clima es inevitable. Las olas alcanzan hasta 6 metros de alto, lo que en ocasiones fuerza al capitán a ordenar que se corte el cable submarino para que la embarcación pueda dirigirse a aguas más tranquilas. El barco regresa cuando las condiciones mejoran; recupera el cable, porque lo dejan amarrado a boyas flotantes, reúnen otra vez las hebras y siguen con el tendido.El trabajo a bordo es lento y arduo. El barco que pasa meses en el mar se mueve a unos 9,6 kilómetros por hora a medida que los cables son jalados de las cuencas gigantes por aperturas que están en la parte trasera de la embarcación. Si el Durable está más cerca de la costa hay un mayor riesgo de daños y se usa una barredora submarina para hundir el cableado en el suelo marino.El personal del Durable no cree que su trabajo se vaya a reducir pronto.Después del proyecto latinoamericano, Google planea construir un nuevo cable que corra desde Virginia, en Estados Unidos, hasta Francia que estaría terminado en 2020. La compañía tiene trece centros de datos en todo el mundo y ocho están en construcción; todos los que se necesitan para los billones de datos requeridos para las búsquedas hechas cada año en Google y para cada cuatrocientas horas de video que se suben cada minuto a YouTube.“Realmente hay que gestionar un tablero de ajedrez multidimensional complejo”, dijo Stowell, la supervisora de construcción de Google, quien usa como collar un cable submarino.La demanda por los cables seguirá creciendo a medida que más negocios empiecen a depender de los servicios de computación en la nube. Además, se esperan nuevas tecnologías como inteligencia artificial más poderosa y los vehículos autónomos que requerirán de una mayor velocidad de transmisión de datos. Las zonas que antes no tenían conectividad web están teniendo acceso; Naciones Unidas reportó hace poco que por primera vez más de la mitad de la población mundial está en línea.“Esta es gran parte de la infraestructura que permite que eso suceda”, dijo Debbie Brask, vicepresidenta de SubCom, la empresa que gestiona el proyecto de Google. “Todos esos datos van a los cables submarinos”.Nota: Los cables que se muestran en el mapa son los que se utilizan en la actualidad, los que se están planeando o los que se construyen. No se muestran los cables fuera de servicio. El cableado mostrado por proveedores de contenido es el que se conoce públicamente que Facebook, Google, Microsoft y Amazon tienen como propiedad parcial o total y en los que son compradores mayoritarios de un cable propiedad de otra compañía. | Fuente: TeleGeography

      Por ADAM SATARIANO, 
    
KARL RUSSELL, 
    
TROY GRIGGS, 
    
BLACKI MIGLIOZZI and 
    
CHANG W. LEE

AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSANTIAGO — Amazon Web Services, a unit of Amazon.com Inc, said it will help astronomers in Chile crunch huge troves of data using its cloud computing services, a symbolically important step for the retail-to-entertainment giant as it looks to expand in Latin America.Amazon will store data and night-sky images gleaned from telescopes in Chile's nearly cloudless Atacama desert, then offer researchers the tools to access them anywhere, said Jeffrey Kratz, General Manager for Public Sector Amazon Web Services (AWS) in Latin American, Caribbean and Canada. "Chile has over 70 percent of telescopes researching ... the night sky, yet 83 percent of the data they cannot keep because they don't have the storage capacity at many of these sites," Kratz told Reuters. "They were frustrated because they weren't able to maximize the amazing research that was going on."Amazon's role as a founding member in the public-private research project, called the Chilean Data Observatory, gives it a key entry into a market where it is seeking to expand. Amazon - which controls nearly one-third of the global cloud computing business, ahead of rivals Microsoft Corp and Google - has until recently struggled to lure public institutions in Latin America to store their data online instead of on physical machines.At a ceremony announcing the project in Santiago on Tuesday, Chile Economy Minister Jose Ramon Valente said the country had selected Amazon to provide the infrastructure for the initiative, calling it "one of the largest centers for the study of big data in the world.""Our objective was to create an organization that would be open to the community, and neutral, that could make the best use of the ... data that is generated in our country," he said. "We want this to be very inclusive." Chilean officials have previously told Reuters tools developed for the astrodata project would also be applicable for a wide variety of other uses, such as tracking potential shop-lifters, fare-evaders on public transport or spotting anomalies in banking or medical datasets. Valente said the data and tools could also be used to assist in the country's mining sector, as well as in the study of climate change. Kratz said Amazon, which has invested "millions of dollars" in the project, would itself not have access to the data, which will remain encrypted. Access will be granted to participants selected by the non-profit Chilean Data Observatory.The deal also comes amid speculation about where in the region the tech giant will install its next data center, which would allow local firms and government to store information on the cloud. Chile and Argentina are both vying for Amazon's investment.Economy Minister Valente said the project bodes well for Chile's relationship with Amazon."This alliance with Amazon shows that Amazon believes in Chile," he said. AWS is a lucrative and fast-growing part of Amazon's overall business. The company said in January that fourth-quarter revenue for the unit had surged 45 percent to $7.43 billion.Kratz said the company was constantly reevaluating its options for new investments but had no further announcements. (Reporting by Dave Sherwood, Editing by Rosalba O'Brien and Susan Thomas)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Vindu GoelNEW DELHI — India’s government has proposed giving itself vast new powers to suppress internet content, igniting a heated battle with global technology giants and prompting comparisons to censorship in China.Under the proposed rules, Indian officials could demand that Facebook, Google, Twitter, TikTok and others remove posts or videos that they deem libelous, invasive of privacy, hateful or deceptive. Internet companies would also have to build automated screening tools to block Indians from seeing “unlawful information or content.” Another provision would weaken the privacy protections of messaging services like WhatsApp so that the authorities could trace messages back to their original senders.The new rules could be imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government anytime after the public comment period ends on Thursday night. The administration has been eager to get them in place before the date is set for this spring’s national elections, which will prompt special pre-election rules limiting new policies.Civil liberties groups and other critics said the changes would violate constitutional protections for free speech and privacy and put India in the same league as autocratic countries like China and Russia. Some of them suggested that the Modi administration was rushing to adopt the regulations so it could more easily pressure the tech platforms to remove social media posts by political opponents in the coming election.“The proposed changes have an authoritarian bent,” said Apar Gupta, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, a digital rights group, which plans to challenge the rules in court if they are enacted. “This is very similar to what China does to its citizens, where it polices their every move and tracks their every post on social media.”India’s proposals add to the growing resistance worldwide against internet behemoths like Google and Facebook, which once flourished largely unimpeded. In Europe, officials last year enacted tough new rules to protect people’s online data, forcing the companies to change some practices. China has long used a system of internet filters, known as the Great Firewall, to block content and shut out global tech companies. And in a 2017 review, The New York Times tallied more than 50 countries that had passed laws in recent years to gain greater control over how their people use the web.The result may be a splintering internet, where a onetime unified information superhighway has become increasingly restricted in certain areas. In India, the government has used laws to nudge people away from the American tech giants and toward local competitors, such as ShareChat, a social network that operates only in Indian languages, and Reliance Jio, a cellphone giant bankrolled by India’s richest man.Mishi Choudhary, founder of SFLC.in, a legal advocacy group in New Delhi, said Indian governments had tried for nearly a decade to exercise more control over internet content but had been restrained by the courts. Now the government is trying again, she said.“Ministers have said these companies will have to comply with Indian rules, and Indian rules are pretty regressive,” said Ms. Choudhary, whose group filed comments opposing the new rules. “We have Indian morality. We have to keep law and order. And we cannot hurt religious sentiments.”India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, which proposed the online content changes, has said the new rules simply build on existing laws and are necessary to combat false and illegal information on social media. The regulations also seek to hold foreign tech companies — including Chinese app makers that have little presence in India now — more accountable. Companies with more than five million Indian users would be required to set up a local subsidiary and appoint leaders based in the country.Ajay Sawhney, the information technology secretary, did not respond to requests for an interview. Officials have privately suggested that they will consider the public responses to their draft rules and make adjustments before issuing a final version.Working independently as well as through trade groups, Microsoft, Facebook and dozens of other tech companies are fighting back against the proposals. They criticized the rules as technically impractical and said they were a sharp departure from how the rest of the world regulates “data intermediaries,” a term for companies that host data provided by their customers and users.In most countries, including under India’s existing laws, such intermediaries are given a “safe harbor.” That means they are exempted from responsibility for illegal or inappropriate content posted on their services, as long as they remove it once notified by a court or another designated authority.In a filing with the ministry last week, Microsoft said that complying with India’s new standards would be “impossible from the process, legal and technology point of view.”The company — whose Hyderabad-born chief executive, Satya Nadella, is a business icon in India — said the proposal lumped together all intermediaries, as varied as social networks and Wi-Fi hot spots, even though each has a different level of control over content that flows through it. In the filing, Microsoft said it would be difficult to screen out gambling content, as the rules would require. Filtering the full range of content demanded by the government would not only violate privacy and freedom of expression, the company wrote, but would also be so challenging that “the cost of even attempting compliance will be prohibitive.”Trade groups representing the largest tech companies have made similar arguments in their filings.Last week, WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook and has some 250 million active users in India, said it could not meet the proposed requirement that it trace viral messages to their origin without destroying the privacy protections that are core to the service.“WhatsApp cares deeply about creating a space for private conversations online,” Carl Woog, a company spokesman, said at a news conference in New Delhi. He said the proposed rules “would require us to re-architect WhatsApp, leading to a different product, one that would not be fundamentally private.”Google and Facebook declined to comment beyond filings made by the industry groups to which they belong. Twitter, which is jousting with India’s Parliament over claims that it suppresses right-wing content, said in a statement that it hoped that any changes to the rules would “strike a careful balance that protects important values such as freedom of expression.”India began signaling last year that it planned to impose tough rules on the tech industry, ending the free rein that American tech giants have long enjoyed in this country of 1.3 billion people, which has been the world’s fastest-growing market for new internet users. Among other things, officials discussed European-style limits on what big internet companies can do with users’ personal data.The newest proposals on internet content were introduced at a private meeting with tech companies in December. They were on track for quick passage until the details leaked to The Indian Express, a local newspaper, which prompted the government to invite broader feedback.Officials have offered little public explanation for the proposals, beyond a desire to curb the kind of false rumors about child kidnappers that spread on WhatsApp a year ago and that incited angry mobs to kill two dozen innocent people. That wave of violence has since subsided.The coming national election has added urgency to the proposals. India’s Election Commission, which administers national and state elections, is considering a ban on all social media content and ads aimed at influencing voters for the 48 hours before voting begins, according to an internal report obtained by the news media. To buttress its legal authority to order such a ban, the commission wrote to the I.T. ministry last week asking it to amend the new rules to specifically prohibit online content that violates election laws or commission orders.One of the biggest cheerleaders for the new rules was Reliance Jio, a fast-growing mobile phone company controlled by Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest industrialist. Mr. Ambani, an ally of Mr. Modi, has made no secret of his plans to turn Reliance Jio into an all-purpose information service that offers streaming video and music, messaging, money transfer, online shopping, and home broadband services.In a filing last week, Reliance Jio said the new rules were necessary to combat “miscreants” and urged the government to ignore free-speech protests. The company also said that encrypted messaging services like WhatsApp, “although perceivably beneficial to users, are detrimental to national interest and hence should not be allowed.”Follow Vindu Goel on Twitter: @vindugoel.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSINGAPORE — Grab is looking to raise another $2 billion (1.53 billion pounds) this year to ramp up expansion, its CEO Anthony Tan told Reuters, only weeks after announcing more than $4.5 billion of funding in what has become Southeast Asia's largest round of private financing.The mega funding comes as Grab rolls out an aggressive strategy to expand its bouquet of services, from transport to food delivery and payments, racing Indonesia's Go-Jek to become an app-for-everything in Southeast Asia, home to about 650 million people.Grab, which is backed by Japan's SoftBank, expects to invest a significant portion of the funds in Indonesia, it said in a statement later. Reuters reported the funding target earlier on Monday."We basically received a very strong vote of confidence. And Masa shared that SoftBank is very happy with Grab and that SoftBank will provide unlimited support to power our growth," Tan said, referring to SoftBank founder and CEO Masayoshi Son."SoftBank continues to believe that Grab deserves its unwavering support," a SoftBank spokeswoman said. Funding, to be raised from strategic investors, including SoftBank, will be a mix of debt and equity, Tan said.Grab's ongoing massive financing round started soon after it bought the Southeast Asian operations of U.S. peer Uber in March last year.The Singapore-headquartered firm, like its regional rival Go-Jek, has been raising billions of dollars to bring ride-hailing, food delivery, e-commerce and banking to a populous region with a growing number of consumers that use smartphones to commute, shop and make payments.Both companies started out in ride-hailing and have since amassed millions of users with cut-rate prices. Backers for Go-Jek include Temasek Holdings, Tencent and Alphabet Inc's Google.Grab counts Toyota, Microsoft, China's Didi Chuxing and Hyundai among its backers. People with direct knowledge of the matter said Grab has raised about $8 billion since its launch almost seven years ago.Last month Grab's president Ming Maa, a former SoftBank executive, said the ride-hailing company was considering raising more funds in its ongoing financing round, in which the SoftBank Vision Fund has invested $1.5 billion.Tan said: "With the amount of funding we have raised, and the support from strategic investors like SoftBank, we are so well-funded to execute on our expansion and investment plans, so there is really no need to IPO." Grab wants to make at least six investments or acquisitions this year and plans to add 1,000 tech staff globally, Tan said.In Singapore, it will double staff to 3,000 when its $134 million headquarters is complete by the end of 2020.SoftBank's support will help Grab to "grow very aggressively this year across our verticals - transport, mobility, food and payments", Tan told Reuters in an interview. (Reporting by Aradhana Aravindan and Anshuman Daga; Additional reporting by Sam Nussey in TOKYO; Editing by Christopher Cushing, Himani Sarkar and David Goodman)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSINGAPORE — Grab is looking to raise another $2 billion this year to ramp up expansion, its CEO Anthony Tan told Reuters, only weeks after announcing more than $4.5 billion of funding in what has become Southeast Asia's largest round of private financing.The mega funding comes as Grab rolls out an aggressive strategy to expand its bouquet of services, from transport to food delivery and payments, racing Indonesia's Go-Jek to become an app-for-everything in Southeast Asia, home to about 650 million people.Grab, which is backed by Japan's SoftBank, expects to invest a significant portion of the funds in Indonesia, it said in a statement later. Reuters reported the funding target earlier on Monday."We basically received a very strong vote of confidence. And Masa shared that SoftBank is very happy with Grab and that SoftBank will provide unlimited support to power our growth," Tan said, referring to SoftBank founder and CEO Masayoshi Son."SoftBank continues to believe that Grab deserves its unwavering support," a SoftBank spokeswoman said. Funding, to be raised from strategic investors, including SoftBank, will be a mix of debt and equity, Tan said.Grab's ongoing massive financing round started soon after it bought the Southeast Asian operations of U.S. peer Uber in March last year.The Singapore-headquartered firm, like its regional rival Go-Jek, has been raising billions of dollars to bring ride-hailing, food delivery, e-commerce and banking to a populous region with a growing number of consumers that use smartphones to commute, shop and make payments.Both companies started out in ride-hailing and have since amassed millions of users with cut-rate prices. Backers for Go-Jek include Temasek Holdings, Tencent and Alphabet Inc's Google.Grab counts Toyota, Microsoft, China's Didi Chuxing and Hyundai among its backers. People with direct knowledge of the matter said Grab has raised about $8 billion since its launch almost seven years ago.Last month Grab's president Ming Maa, a former SoftBank executive, said the ride-hailing company was considering raising more funds in its ongoing financing round, in which the SoftBank Vision Fund has invested $1.5 billion.Tan said: "With the amount of funding we have raised, and the support from strategic investors like SoftBank, we are so well-funded to execute on our expansion and investment plans, so there is really no need to IPO." Grab wants to make at least six investments or acquisitions this year and plans to add 1,000 tech staff globally, Tan said.In Singapore, it will double staff to 3,000 when its $134 million headquarters is complete by the end of 2020.SoftBank's support will help Grab to "grow very aggressively this year across our verticals - transport, mobility, food and payments", Tan told Reuters in an interview. (Reporting by Aradhana Aravindan and Anshuman Daga; Additional reporting by Sam Nussey in TOKYO; Editing by Christopher Cushing, Himani Sarkar and David Goodman)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeEach week, we review the week’s news, offering analysis about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news:Web regulators are getting into their groove. But are they going too quickly?This past week, the British government proposed new powers to issue fines and make individual executives legally liable for harmful content on their platforms. My colleague Adam Satariano said it “would be one of the world’s most aggressive actions to rein in the most corrosive online content.”Days earlier, Australia passed legislation that threatens fines for social media companies that fail to rapidly remove violent material. And there’s a growing pipeline of other internet regulation, along with existing laws like the European Union’s sweeping General Data Protection Regulation.“We’re entering a new phase of hyper regulation,” said Paul Fehlinger, the deputy executive director of the Internet and Jurisdiction Policy Network, an organization established to understand how national laws affect the internet.This flurry of content rules is understandable. Much of the material they would police is abhorrent, and social media’s rapid rise has caught lawmakers off guard; now the public wants something done.But the regulations could have unintended consequences.Difficulties in defining “harmful” mean governments will develop different standards. In turn, the web could easily look different depending on your location — a big shift from its founding principles. (This is already happening: The Chicago Tribune’s website, for example, doesn’t comply with General Data Protection Regulation, so there’s no access to it from Europe.)There may be less visible effects. If regulation required differences at a hardware level, that could fragment the infrastructure, said Konstantinos Komaitis, a senior director at the nonprofit Internet Society, which promotes the open development and use of the internet. That could make the internet less resilient to outages and attacks.And bigger, richer companies will find it easier to comply with sprawling regulation, which could reinforce the power of Big Tech.“There is a major risk that we end up in a situation where short-term political pressure trumps long-term vision,” Mr. Fehlinger said.Mr. Komaitis said avoiding unintended consequences was “very simple, yet very difficult.”“It is all about collaboration,” he added. The idea: lawmakers work together across borders to ensure rules are more consistent.The challenge is that collaboration could slow the pace of regulation that lawmakers desire. But Mr. Komaitis said many proposed regulations lack clear plans for implementation, and envisions snags when governments come to apply them. If they struggle, he said, collaboration and sharing of expertise may be the only way to make their plans work.[How is technology blurring the lines between public and private? Sign up to Charlie Warzel’s new limited-run newsletter to find out more — and what you can do stop it.]Artificial intelligence could make our lives easier and more efficient. But, like any powerful technology, it’s more complicated than that. A.I. can be used for surveillance. To control autonomous weapons. It can be biased. It could erode jobs. The list goes on.None of those are reasons to reject A.I. outright. But they underscore how its development must be approached with care.Big Tech has struggled to publicly demonstrate that care. Amazon, Google and Microsoft have all drawn criticism for their A.I. work with military and government agencies. Just this month, Google’s plan to create an A.I. ethics board ended disastrously when backlash about board members led to its dissolution.Missteps should be called out, especially when they’re made by such powerful corporations. But in an emergent field, mistakes also serve as lessons. And a new set of A.I. ethics guidelines from the European Commission is a good example of how trial and error will be a fundamental part of ethical A.I. development.The guidelines, developed by 52 experts, contain seven requirements that A.I. systems should meet to be deemed trustworthy. What stands out about them for Charlotte Stix, a policy officer at the Leverhulme Center for the Future of Intelligence at Cambridge University, is that they’re designed to be carried out.Unlike other A.I. ethics guidelines, they attempt to join ethical principles to firm recommendations — something that has divided opinions among some people working in the field. That’s why the European Commission hopes companies will adopt and test them between now and 2020, so that they can be improved.Frank Buytendijk, a vice president in Gartner’s data and analytics group, said the guidelines sent a message to big tech companies that may have struggled with A.I. ethics in the past: “Here’s your chance to do the right thing.”Amazon joined the ranks of tech companies wanting to blanket the world with the internet.Its Project Kuiper plan, which came to light in filings made by the Federal Communications Commission, would put 3,236 satellites into low Earth orbit to deliver the internet to “underserved communities around the world.” It has been likened to a network under development by SpaceX. Facebook has plans for a similar system, and Google has teamed up with the satellite operator Telesat along the same lines.These initiatives seek to provide affordable internet connections to people who currently lack them — from Alaska to sub-Saharan Africa. Satellites appear to be a front-runner: Christopher Mims of The Wall Street Journal noted that, according to the satellite industry veteran Shayn Hawthorne, “some kind of affordable satellite internet now appears inevitable.”For big tech companies, this is not selfless. A good example of why is the Free Basics program offered by Facebook’s nonprofit Internet.org: a zero-cost data service that provides access in some developing countries to a curated group of websites, including Facebook. In locations that are essentially untapped markets, its provision of the web can help it secure new users.Other Big Tech players are unlikely to want to miss out.■ Does privacy matter? What do companies know, and how do they know it? And what can we do about it? The New York Times is trying to answer those questions for you.■ What you’ve heard about Chinese A.I. may be bluster. Jeff Ding from Oxford University says the West has overhyped China’s abilities.■ China might ban Bitcoin mining. A government agency added it to a list of industries that it proposes to eliminate.■ It’s all I.P.O.s. Uber and Pinterest are the next big tech unicorns to go public, in the coming month.■ Amazon’s cloud might be a potent spy tool for the United States. That’s why it’s unsuitable for storing German police data, Germany’s top data protection officer told Politico.■ Big Tech’s data tricks are under scrutiny. Facebook will change its terms of service to explain its use of data in response to pressure from the European Commission. And Senators Mark Warner and Deb Fischer introduced a bill aimed at clamping down on user-interface tricks that encourage data sharing.■ Amazon or Microsoft will build the Pentagon’s cloud. They were the only bidders to meet the “minimum requirements” to win the $10 billion contract. One will be chosen.■ YouTube had to shut down comments on a House hearing about social media. The live stream of the event, focused on white nationalism, was overrun by racist comments.■ The House passed a bill to revive net neutrality. But the legislation faces long odds in the Republican-led Senate.■ Amazon workers are listening to our Alexa commands. They even share some amusing ones in an internal chat room.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Amazon held off stiffer competition for online shoppers during the holiday season, once again increasing its sales. But the company said on Thursday that growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace — and it came at a cost, with the company spending far more on shipping to win customers.While strong, the latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faces more competition, it is also maturing. The company reported that its revenue from retail sales and services grew 17 percent to almost $65 billion globally, while its shipping costs rose 23 percent, to $9 billion, compared with the same quarter a year ago.The company is compensating for slowing growth in e-commerce by expanding its fast-moving, highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Over all, the company produced a profit of $3 billion in the quarter, up more than 60 percent from the same period a year earlier.Competition for shoppers over the holidays was intense and expensive, as other big retailers stepped up their promotions. Target offered free two-day shipping, no matter how small an order, and Walmart and others tried to maximize use of their physical stores, an advantage they have over Amazon. On Christmas Eve, Best Buy customers could order products online from store inventory as late as 5 p.m. and pick them up just an hour later.Amazon pushed back with expanded free shipping to all customers until about a week before Christmas, and made more products eligible for free one-day shipping for Prime members.But revenue from online shopping slowed, in part because now most of Amazon’s retail sales come from third-party merchants selling on its marketplace rather than from Amazon’s own inventory. Amazon gets only a slice of this revenue.In addition, the growth of Prime membership, which costs $119 a year, is approaching a plateau. About 56 percent of American households will be Prime members this year, up only slightly from 53 percent in 2018, Morgan Stanley estimated. Prime members spend far more on the site, making them crucial to increasing sales.Another risk awaits the company: India. The country, which Amazon has made its most important emerging market, imposed new regulations that prohibit foreign e-commerce companies from owning a stake in sellers that offer items on their sites. That has limited the selection available on Amazon by almost a third virtually overnight. Brian Olsavsky, Amazon’s finance chief, cited “uncertainty” in India as a reason Amazon predicted lower revenue for the next quarter than analysts had expected.Even as sales growth has slowed, though, Amazon has increased profit margins.The third-party merchant business, for example, is generally more profitable than when Amazon sells products it buys directly because the costs are lower.It has also tried to squeeze costs from its operations. Mr. Olsavsky pointed to how the number of employees grew 38 percent in 2017, excluding acquisitions, but just 14 percent in 2018. There were similar trends in the construction of data centers and warehouses. “We had a banking, if you will, of some large expansions in the prior two years,” Mr. Olsavsky said on a call with analysts.“The theme has been Amazon shifting from a product seller to a fee collector,” said Simeon Siegel, an analyst at Instinet. The shift from growth to profit is common as companies mature, he said: “We are going through growing pains.”Shares in the company fell nearly 5 percent in after-hours trading, after the quarterly results were released.Amazon’s two great profit engines are not in the core business of selling and fulfilling items, however — they are in cloud computing and advertising.Amazon Web Services, the leading provider of cloud computing, grew 45 percent, with $7.4 billion in sales and almost $2.2 billion in operating income.After several years of dominating the market, which it essentially helped create, Amazon now faces robust competition, including from Microsoft. At its annual cloud conference in November, Amazon announced a number of new products, including AWS Outposts, which lets companies use a single set of tools to manage data across cloud and local servers, an area known as “hybrid cloud” where Microsoft has had success.Mr. Olsavsky said the company had been hiring aggressively to bring in more engineers and sales staff for the cloud offerings, saying “AWS maintained a very strong growth rate and continued to deliver for customers.”Investors have increasingly looked to Amazon’s ad business, which displays ads on its own site as well as across the web based on consumer shopping habits, as a major driver of profit. The “Other” business unit, which analysts say is almost entirely advertising, had almost $3.4 billion in revenue during the quarter, and more than $10 billion over the last year.“They have long been a sleeping giant and had capacity to build a big advertising business,” said Brian Wieser, an analyst with Pivotal Research Group.Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @kyweiseAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe messaging platform figured out the value of privacy a long time ago.By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. If you want to know why Mark Zuckerberg is suddenly so interested in privacy, I have one word for you: data.“Mark makes decisions based on data and not values,” a person familiar with Facebook’s inner workings said when I asked about the chief executive’s stunning about-face this week on the new trajectory of the social media industry he pretty much founded.I would bet a lot that Mr. Zuckerberg saw the data I have seen that shows that the future is not looking good for the bloated, oversharing, fake-news-spewing, Russian-infected big blue app that made him both rich and powerful and, now, quite vulnerable.[Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]And what do those numbers say? Well, first and foremost that social media is in big trouble with the young and that it is long past time for it to shift to a privacy-oriented stance that was never part of its DNA, except perhaps as a throwaway line in a news release.While Facebook has always insisted otherwise, its commitment to protecting the information of users has been weak at best since its very founding. But now Mr. Zuckerberg has written a blog post — with not one single trace of irony and with nary a mention of the many privacy abuses he has presided over — announcing that the company would be betting big on private messaging and protected communications for its billions of users.You know, like Snapchat, but on a Facebook scale.Over the years, Facebook has swiped many nifty ideas from Snapchat, the ephemeral messaging platform — which Mr. Zuckerberg actually tried to buy many years ago when it was still a start-up. That has been especially true at the Facebook-owned Instagram, which did a wholesale shoplift of Snapchat’s Stories by creating … wait for it … Instagram Stories!In a podcast interview with me, the Instagram co-founder and former chief executive Kevin Systrom did not even bother to hide the act. He said that he admired the creativity of Evan Spiegel, the Snapchat founder, and that taking a good idea and making it better was a thing that always happened in tech. He compared the Stories feature to a car radio that Instagram had simply improved on. Indeed it did, and it has been a huge hit for Facebook.That’s fair enough, I guess. But this time Mr. Zuckerberg is pilfering so much more, sketching out a future business that looks a lot like Snapchat, with a little bit like China’s WeChat mixed in. And, mostly, not at all like Facebook.The big takeaway is that the penny has finally dropped with Mr. Zuckerberg that messaging and social media are very different to users, as much as he has tried to force them into an unholy mush.All you would have to do to figure that out is ask my 16-year-old. But I recently saw some internal Snapchat data that drove this message home using data from both Snapchat and Facebook Ad Managers. It showed that Snapchat ads reach more 13- to 24-year-olds in the United States than ads on Facebook, Instagram and Messenger combined. Among 13- to 17-year-olds, the delta is even wider.Even if those are Snapchat stats, it is clear that the young demographic that Facebook covets doesn’t much care about public sharing via posting. If it did, would Mr. Zuckerberg have seen the need to make this announcement? He would not, since the ad-heavy Facebook bulletin board is still a huge moneymaker, and it’s much harder to make such scratch from a business focused on private messaging.That has been one of the problems of Snapchat, which is much smaller than Facebook — as well as internal missteps caused by a rotating series of managers and strategies.But Mr. Spiegel’s idea — that people care a lot about privacy and don’t want the information they upload to be sold like a Christmas pig — remains a stellar one. Ironically, Mr. Zuckerberg may turn out to be the one who can make it profitable.So indulge me for a minute with a comparison: Mr. Zuckerberg is to Bill Gates as Mr. Spiegel is to Steve Jobs.Mr. Jobs always had better ideas and vision than Mr. Gates. But Apple spent a long time in dire straits while he pushed his high-level concepts about security, privacy, and design and simplicity.Mr. Gates, on the other hand, was an unqualified genius at business models and systems, and he clearly understood the depressing truth that good enough was good enough for a lot of consumers. Of course, Mr. Jobs’s stunning creativity eventually won out, with the advent of the iPod, which was soon followed by the iPhone, and, well, the rest is history. Mr. Gates and his No. 2 at Microsoft, Steve Ballmer, scoffed at the efforts of Apple before trying to backpedal furiously. It did not work.Remember the Microsoft Zune? Me neither.In a podcast interview last year, Mr. Zuckerberg name-checked Mr. Gates as an important mentor, and he has obviously learned well. He has already shown a talent for turnarounds, shifting the company from desktop to mobile in one of the most impressive management moves in tech history. While he stumbled at first by doing a Facebook phone (I don’t remember that either!), the deft Mr. Zuckerberg quickly recovered and the company has never looked back.And now this, a chance to leave behind all the headaches that come with running an enormous public platform. As I have said before, Facebook is like a megapolis, presided over by Mr. Zuckerberg. Managing it is hard, because it needs a strong police force and competent people to pick up the garbage and working sewers, and there are bad people all over the place. While the growth of this city, let’s call it ZuckTown, has been impressive, it has also been sloppily managed in ways that have hurt society.Maybe the Facebook of the future will be different. That could be a very good thing for the world, and I’m glad that Mr. Zuckerberg seems to have decided that the map laid out by Snapchat is the one to go with — even if he didn’t give Snapchat any credit for it. One person I spoke with likened Mr. Zuckerberg to a captain who has decided not to go down with a ship that has sprung some serious leaks: “He’s just going to jump to another ship rather than fix the first one. And keep on going.”I guess there is not much else to say but: Godspeed, Mark.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Steve LohrHi. I’m Steve Lohr. I write about the technology industry, from the old titans like IBM to start-ups working on the future of artificial intelligence.In this week’s newsletter, we’re largely taking a break from the consumer internet giants, and the various controversies swirling around them. (Exception: Amazon’s surprise announcement on Thursday to abandon its plans to build a headquarters in New York. See below.)Instead, we’re going to look at recent research and reports that track how digital technology is moving into mainstream industries, and the implications.Let’s start with a smart piece this week by my colleague Erin Griffith, “The Next Wave of ‘Unicorn’ Start-Ups.” Erin asked CB Insights, a research firm that studies start-ups and venture capital, to create a list of the next wave of young companies likely to reach valuations of $1 billion or more. She then reported on some of the 50 companies.The first round of well-known unicorns, led by Uber and Airbnb, she writes, exploited smartphones and cloud computing to upend old-line businesses. The next companies poised to become unicorns are going narrower, deeper and into more fields.“They largely focus on software,” she writes, “for specific industries like farms, banks and life sciences companies.”That kind of broad-based adoption across the nation’s $20 trillion economy is what will deliver growth and higher living standards for many. Yet the advance of data-driven artificial intelligence will also provide real-world evidence of how much and how quickly this technology may widen income disparities and kill jobs.The short answer, it seems, is not as fast as techno-pessimists fear. A.I.’s progress is impressive, but limited. An article this week by Cade Metz, “A.I. Shows Promise Assisting Physicians,”  underlines that point.The piece describes an A.I. research program whose accuracy matched or slightly surpassed human physicians in diagnosing common childhood diseases like influenza. The software was trained on the medical histories, lab tests and other clinical data in more than 600,000 electronic health records of children in southern China.It was an encouraging demonstration. But the experimental system relied on the easy access to personal data in China, where privacy regulations are less restrictive, and was confined to diagnosing common ailments.That step-by-step approach is the counsel for business in a new book by Thomas Davenport, “The AI Advantage: How to Put the Artificial Intelligence Revolution to Work” (MIT Press). Mr. Davenport, a professor of information technology and management at Babson College, is a seasoned expert in using digital data to streamline operations and spot opportunities. And he’s been at it since well before the current A.I. wave, which is both a technological evolution and a branding craze.His advice to mainstream companies is that the best course is often to use basic A.I. tools to automate mundane office tasks in operations like accounting, billing, payments and customer service — and to avoid “moon shots.”One of Mr. Davenport’s prime examples of a misguided moon shot was IBM’s initial efforts to apply its Watson technology to diagnosing cancer. That was a high-profile science project that proved more difficult, time-consuming and costly than anticipated, though IBM continues that work with several leading cancer centers.Speaking of IBM, the company was out in San Francisco this week for its annual Think conference, which attracted more than 25,000 attendees. Its executives presented its Watson and cloud technology as the trusted path for companies across the industrial spectrum that want to embrace A.I.IBM cannot compete head-on with Amazon, Microsoft and Google in the big-spending game of building out massive data centers to provide the infrastructure layer of cloud computing to one and all. So it is seeking to shift the competition.IBM talks about “chapter two” in the cloud market. Increasingly, it says, companies will run not only new applications but also their legacy software on the cloud, either private clouds in their own data centers or on IBM’s cloud. The next stage of cloud computing, Virginia Rometty, IBM’s chief executive, told Jon Fortt of CNBC, “is going to be driven by the modernization of mission-critical apps. That’s our sweet spot.”And in a nod to reality, IBM announced a Watson Anywhere initiative: Its A.I. technology will run on the popular clouds of Amazon, Microsoft or Google as well as IBM’s cloud.In other news:■ J. David Goodman, City Hall reporter for The Times, deftly explained the shifting politics before Amazon withdrew its plan in “Why Amazon Is Caught in an Unexpected Brawl in New York.” But what happened in Queens is part of a broader resistance to the tech boom, and its consequences. After the protests surfaced last year, Fred Wilson, the dean of New York venture capitalists, told me that “it’s partly from a sense that Amazon coming in is not going to help them, and will only drive up their costs. To really be a success in New York, the benefits of the tech sector have to extend to every borough and every neighborhood.”That concern, across the country, as A.I. technology marches ahead, is the subject of  a lengthy analysis this week by Mark Muro, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.■ For a rich, enlightening read, I recommend a piece in this week’s New York Times Magazine, “The Secret History of Women in Coding.” The “secret” is a headline writer’s exaggeration. Anyone with an interest in computing history knows about Ada Lovelace, Grace Hopper and the women who programmed the early Eniac computer. Those stories have been told repeatedly, including in books.But Clive Thompson, the author, elegantly weaves that history around the story of an early female programmer who is alive and recalls it all. His piece captures what it was like in the 1940s through early 1960s, when writing software was a wide-open field, before a male-dominated culture took root.As Lois Haibt — who in 1955, as a freshly minted Vassar College graduate, joined the IBM team that created Fortran, the first popular programming language — once told me: “They took anyone who seemed to have an aptitude for problem-solving skills — bridge players, chess players, even women.”Steve Lohr, based in The Times’s New York headquarters, writes about technology and economics. Follow him on Twitter here: @SteveLohr.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Nellie Bowles, David Gelles and Cade MetzTechnology and business writers from The Times participated in the New Work Summit last week in Half Moon Bay, Calif., which featured some of the top tech minds in the country. Over a day and a half, they engaged in spirited conversations about the relationship between artificial intelligence and human beings — and how or whether the creators of A.I. should be held to ethical standards. Here are the takeaways from David Gelles, of the Times’s Corner Office, and the technology writers Nellie Bowles and Cade Metz.MR. METZ I don’t know about you, David and Nellie, but what struck me were the vast differences of opinion swirling around the notion of “ethical artificial intelligence.” Ethics are very much in the eye of the beholder.MS. BOWLES They are. My panel with the ethicist Tristan Harris and A.I. researcher Meredith Whittaker dove into some of the complexities for companies like Google and Facebook trying to establish ethical guidelines for what they’re rolling out. In some ways it’s unfair to ask an engineer to also be a philosopher. And even if a company hopes that the engineers think about implications, those workers (mostly white, mostly male, mostly in office parks around Palo Alto) cannot possibly conceive of how many lives the algorithms will impact and how. So my panelists argued in favor of transparency. As artificial intelligence is being developed, companies should open up for researchers and the public to grok it and start having these debates. And, in terms of that morning, there’s nothing better than philosophy by candlelight.MR. GELLES Ah yes, the lack of electricity. The power was out, the live stream was down and the stage was lit with candles. It was a good look for a tech conference. But yes, ethics seemed, well — relative. Speakers like Mr. Harris and Ms. Whittaker spoke passionately about the need for companies to respect users’ privacy, while former Secretary of Defense Ash Carter made a compelling argument that launching a Tomahawk missile was not so different than dispatching a swarm of autonomous killer drones.MR. METZ You can see this same split inside the big tech companies. It was recently revealed that Microsoft employees have protested the company’s decision to supply HoloLens augmented reality headsets to the military, but Brad Smith, who you interviewed on stage, strongly defended this and other military projects. For him, this is about “defending the freedoms of our country.”MR. GELLES It’s refreshing to see a big company stand up to its employees for once. For so much of the last few years, it has seemed like activist employees — often a small but vocal minority — have been dictating the policies of big companies. Microsoft seems to have remembered that its employees work for the company, and not the other way around.MR. METZ After Google shut down some of its military work in response to employee protests, many saw this as the beginning of something larger. But you do wonder how much of that was driven by Google’s unique corporate culture, where there is open communication across the company and employees are, on some level, encouraged to voice their personal opinions.MS. BOWLES Exactly. Google is extremely unique, and I’m curious how long management will tolerate its rebellious work force. Facebook, for example, operates as an almost cult of secrecy and loyalty, so you don’t see similar high-profile protests in Menlo Park.MR. GELLES Cade, what’s your take on how impactful some of these technologies really are right now? I heard some examples of A.I. and machine learning being put to work in specific ways. But at times, it felt like everyone was still speculating about a science fiction film.MR. METZ This is an ongoing problem. There have been very real and very significant gains in image recognition, speech recognition and language translation over the last several years. That can help with talking digital assistants, driverless cars and certain aspects of health care — not to mention face recognition services and autonomous weapons. But so many tech executives — and the press — talk about “A.I.” in a weirdly exaggerated way. Driverless cars are still years from the mainstream. Better translation is very different from a more general intelligence that can do anything a human can do.MR. GELLES Nellie, you spoke with Meredith Whittaker and Tristan Harris, two cautionary voices in tech today. Do you get the sense that the people really making decisions at companies like Facebook and Google are really listening to them, or merely pretending to care about the issues they’re raising?MS. BOWLES I would ask what exactly it means to care. Do they as people want an A.I. apocalypse in which we are all house cats for computers? Of course not. But are they for-profit companies that want to win this new arms race? Yes. They seem to respond mostly to public opprobrium, making major ethical changes after whistle-blowers or big investigations come out. YouTube knows how troubling its YouTube Kids product is, yet it has been running for years. Only after the public complains enough will they take filtering seriously or take the product off the market.MR. GELLES Another through line in conversations during the week was the degree to which A.I. and automation could decimate thousands (millions?) of jobs. The consensus seems to be that enormous workplace displacement is imminent. There’s less consensus about what to do about it. Nellie, what do our all-powerful Silicon Valley overlords say about all this? Are we all just going to live off a Universal Basic Income that supports our indulgent Amazon Prime habits?MS. BOWLES I feel like I’m the bearer of bad news in this chat, but guys, the overlords are pretty sure that soon most people won’t be very useful. I recently profiled the Silicon Valley C.E.O.’s favorite philosopher, Yuval Noah Harari, and this is his argument. He hopes the futuristic vision he paints will be a call to arms, but most here are resigned to what they see as coming. But yes, that’s why they like UBI. It seems like a nice enough fix to stave off revolution.MR. GELLES Did we mention that the fire alarm went off? When the power finally came back on at the end of the day, I was about to walk onstage for one of the final sessions. But then lights started flashing, alarms started blaring and everyone had to evacuate the ballroom. Is that a metaphor for something? Could an A.I.-powered hotel have fixed that? Or was it just time to go home?MS. BOWLES The building A.I. knew you were about to go on stage, Gelles.MR. METZ Either that, or the building A.I. isn’t nearly as intelligent as people make it out to be.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Emily FlitterA group of San Francisco Bay Area philanthropists has pledged to spend half a billion dollars to protect and expand affordable housing in the region, according to an announcement on Thursday. A central player in the project is the philanthropy founded by Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan.The effort, called the Partnership for the Bay’s Future, is meant to combat the dizzying ascent of home prices that has run parallel with Silicon Valley’s latest expansion. In November, the median sale price for a home in the Bay Area was $815,000, according to the research firm CoreLogic.The money will seed an investment fund that will work to preserve housing for 175,000 families and add capacity for 8,000 new homes over the next decade through loans and other assistance to community groups. A separate $40 million fund will make grants to local governments and other groups trying to devise policies to protect affordable housing on a large scale.In a news release announcing the partnership, California’s governor, Gavin Newsom, called the move a “bold action.” Mr. Newsom, who has criticized tech companies for not doing enough to help solve a problem they are widely believed to have exacerbated, praised the project’s collaboration of private companies, nonprofits, government agencies and community leaders.Morgan Stanley, Kaiser Permanente, Facebook and Genentech are also contributing to the partnership. But the role that any one company will play is small compared with Microsoft’s pledge last week  to spend $500 million toward affordable housing in the Seattle area.The Bay Area fund’s participants, which include the Ford Foundation and the family charities of the two founders of Hewlett-Packard, say they have raised $260 million so far. The news release said they would “continue to engage new partners and funders.”The question of what the tech industry should do to ease housing crises in tech hubs has roiled Bay Area politics in recent years. In November, after a contentious battle between billionaires for and against the measure, San Francisco voters approved a ballot initiative to raise taxes on big businesses to help increase the city’s budget for homeless services.The city’s middle class has already confronted dislocation. Recently, some people working at places like schools, bookstores and restaurants began moving into dormitories.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — On a three-state tour this week to promote her child-focused initiative, “Be Best,” Melania Trump showed that her time as first lady has sharpened an already sophisticated understanding of how to enhance her public image.In a glossy and tightly controlled environment, Mrs. Trump restricted the majority of her interactions to emphasize motherhood — perhaps the only part of her private life that she has publicly embraced. In Tulsa, Okla., she had a heartwarming exchange with a child who dislikes homework. In Seattle, she spoke to assembled Microsoft executives about the challenges children face online. And onstage at a theater in Las Vegas, she shared a rare personal story about warning her 12-year-old son, Barron, about the dangers of drug abuse.“I try to explain how drugs are dangerous,” Mrs. Trump said, “and how they will mess up your head, mess up your body, and nothing positive comes of it.”Mrs. Trump’s tour firmed up her commitment to “Be Best,” which addresses social media, well being and the opioid crisis, and which has faced setbacks from the start: The momentum of a Rose Garden debut in May was slowed when Mrs. Trump fell ill from a kidney condition soon afterward. And since then, she and her 12-person East Wing staff have had to deal with a departing policy director, a lengthy government shutdown, and countless chaotic news cycles engulfing President Trump’s White House.When Mrs. Trump embarked on this week’s trip, she made it clear that she would not be talking about anything she deemed off topic when she ignored a reporter’s shouted question about the testimony of Michael D. Cohen, her husband’s former personal lawyer. Last week, Mr. Cohen told Congress that he deeply regretted lying to Mrs. Trump about an alleged affair between her husband and the pornographic film star Stormy Daniels.Mrs. Trump instead tried to keep her message trained on “Be Best.” But by Tuesday, the second and final day of her trip, she took a moment at the town-hall-style event in Las Vegas to chide the news media for dedicating time to other coverage besides the opioid crisis.“I challenge the press to devote as much time to the lives lost and the potential lives that could be saved, by dedicating the same amount of coverage that you do to idle gossip or trivial stories,” Mrs. Trump said.The first lady did not specify which stories she considered unwelcome, but, like her husband, she pays close attention to her news coverage, poring over the headlines on social media. That private behavior tends to conflict with her public admonishments: Mrs. Trump has castigated the news media for focusing on her image, including matters of her personal style, despite relying on it as a powerful messaging tool — with mixed results — in the past.Modern first ladies, said Anita McBride, who served as Laura Bush’s chief of staff, have faced intense pressure to field questions about their private lives while trying to build substantive policy platforms without the luxury of a West Wing-size staff. Mrs. Bush’s National Book Festival survived, in part, because it was co-opted by the Library of Congress. And several partners helped push along Michelle Obama’s “Let’s Move” initiative, including her efforts to find funding for salad bars in schools.Even so, both women faced questions regarding anything but those platforms.“It’s not just her,” Mrs. McBride said of Mrs. Trump. “It’s this constant focus on the clothes and the private life.” But any first lady, she added, must endure scrutiny about what she called “that mystery behind the walls of the White House.”In recent months, Mrs. Trump has continued to try to reinforce the idea that her behind-the-scenes efforts are more important than surface curiosities. In December, she hired Art Harding, who previously worked on policy issues at the United States Agency for International Development, to fill the role of policy director, Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trump’s communications director, said in an email.Ms. Grisham said the East Wing was also working on partnerships that are meant to help Mrs. Trump’s “Be Best” message endure. Those partners include Lily’s Place, a West Virginia clinic that treats babies born with neonatal abstinence syndrome, the National Institutes of Health and Microsoft.The opioid crisis is one issue that administration officials and those close to the crisis say Mrs. Trump has succeeded in spotlighting.Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, said that Mrs. Trump decided to fold the subject of opioids into her portfolio in the summer of 2017, and has regularly been at the president’s side since he declared the matter a public health emergency that fall.“This is the one public policy issue that they work on together,” Ms. Conway said. “The first lady lending her voice and visibility is priceless currency.”Others say Mrs. Trump’s willingness to lend her image has led to a noticeable increase in awareness around neonatal abstinence syndrome, a condition in which babies are born in opioid withdrawal — one suffering from the condition is born every 15 minutes, according to government statistics.As deaths from drug overdoses skyrocket, the Trump administration’s handling of opioid addiction has not escaped the reaches of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, which announced on Wednesday that it would hold a hearing to determine if the White House had been deficient in its approach to national drug policy. Even so, Jessica Hulsey Nickel, the founder of Addiction Policy Forum, a group of organizations working to elevate awareness of the opioid crisis, said Mrs. Trump’s work was a “gift” for people struggling to find resources.“To pay attention and to shine a spotlight on the moms and babies affected by this disease who are often overlooked,” Ms. Hulsey Nickel said, “that’s important and it deserves recognition.”As she closed out her “Be Best” tour in Las Vegas, Mrs. Trump shared her thoughts on the opioid crisis with Eric Bolling, a friend of the Trumps whose son died after an accidental opioid overdose in 2017. Mr. Bolling said that interest in the town-hall-style events he hosts as part of an initiative by Sinclair Broadcast Group, the country’s largest broadcaster, “blows up” when he is able to announce Mrs. Trump’s participation.“You can probably fake a lot of things, a lot of initiatives,” Mr. Bolling said. “But you cannot fake empathy.”In the end, even Mr. Bolling could not resist asking Mrs. Trump a round of personal questions. She told him that her days involve renovation projects — including the White House bowling alley — overseeing the White House residence staff, working with the White House Historical Association and managing her son’s schedule.Mr. Bolling’s comparatively casual line of questioning prompted dozens of off-topic headlines, including those that focused on the preferred Trump family dish — spaghetti, Mrs. Trump guessed — over the importance of the opioid crisis.After Mrs. Trump returned home, the East Wing chided the news media for veering off topic.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — U.S. stocks rose on Friday, boosted by better-than-expected job growth in March, which eased concerns of an economic slowdown that have periodically roiled financial markets over the past year.With Friday's gains, the benchmark S&P 500 has closed higher for seven trading days in a row, its longest winning streak since October 2017.The Labor Department said nonfarm payrolls rose by 196,000 jobs in March, topping the 180,000 new jobs forecast by economists polled by Reuters. Data for February was revised upward to a gain of 33,000 jobs instead of the previously reported 20,000, the smallest gain since September 2017.The data provided reassurance two weeks after the yield curve between three-month Treasury bills and 10-year notes briefly inverted, in what is commonly viewed as a sign of an oncoming recession."The yield curve inversion freaked people out, got them thinking about a recession," said Andrew Slimmon, senior portfolio manager at Morgan Stanley Investment Management in New York. "Data like today's takes that off the table."However, wage increases slowed in March, leaving the data broadly supportive of the Federal Reserve's decision to suspend its three-year campaign to tighten monetary policy.A dovish Fed along with hopes for a U.S.-China trade agreement have lifted the S&P 500 to its highest level since Oct. 9, putting the index only 1.3% below its record closing high.The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 40.36 points, or 0.15%, to 26,424.99, the S&P 500 gained 13.35 points, or 0.46%, to 2,892.74 and the Nasdaq Composite added 46.91 points, or 0.59%, to 7,938.69.Stocks across the world also got a lift from President Donald Trump's comments on Thursday that Beijing and Washington were close to a trade deal that could be announced within four weeks. Trump later said he would not predict that a deal will be reached.Next week, corporate earnings will come into greater focus with major U.S. banks scheduled to report quarterly results. Analysts expect earnings for S&P 500 companies to fall year-over-year for the first time since 2016.On Friday, energy stocks jumped 1.7%, the biggest percentage gain among S&P 500 sectors, as oil prices firmed after the release of the U.S. jobs data and on expectations that conflict in Libya could tighten supply.Technology stocks rose 0.4%, rebounding from Thursday's decline as shares of Apple Inc and Microsoft Corp rose.Dow Inc shares helped cap gains on the Dow Industrials. The shares dropped 4.1% as J.P. Morgan started coverage of the company, which was spun off from DowDuPont Inc, with an "underweight" rating.Boeing Co shares dipped 1.0% after UBS cut its price target and said the preliminary report following last month's fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash pointed to MCAS anti-stall software as a contributor to the crash. The software has also been implicated in the fatal crash in October of a Lion Air 737 MAX jet in Indonesia.Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 2.81-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 2.28-to-1 ratio favored advancers.The S&P 500 posted 34 new 52-week highs and no new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 75 new highs and 23 new lows. Volume on U.S. exchanges was 6.24 billion shares, compared to the 7.33 billion average for the full session over the last 20 trading days. (Reporting by April Joyner; Additional reporting by Sruthi Shankar and Shreyashi Sanyal in Bengaluru; Editing by Leslie Adler and Diane Craft)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Larry Fink, who oversees nearly $6 trillion of investments at BlackRock, wrote a letter to chief executives last year declaring that businesses must make “a positive contribution to society.”It was seen as a turning point in the debate over the state of global capitalism, Andrew writes in his column. Some business leaders bristled, but others began talking about their companies’ “purpose” in mission statements and official documents.Yesterday, Mr. Fink sent chief executives another letter, arguing that businesses cannot merely have a purpose; they must be leaders in a divided world:“Stakeholders are pushing companies to wade into sensitive social and political issues — especially as they see governments failing to do so effectively.”It’s a continued explanation of the stance that last year prompted Barron’s to call Mr. Fink “the new conscience of Wall Street.” Not everyone agrees with him, but he has helped further a conversation that is undoubtedly positive, Andrew writes.“I don’t see a recession coming”: Mr. Fink told the FT that skittishness among investors was natural, given the developments that buffeted markets toward the end of last year. But he added that he saw few signs of a global downturn.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Goldman Sachs is orchestrating a campaign to discredit one of its former partners and minimize its role in the looting of Malaysia’s big state investment fund, write Matthew Goldstein, Emily Flitter and Kate Kelly.The news: In recent presentations to regulators and law enforcement authorities, Goldman Sachs has depicted Tim Leissner, a former top investment banker, as a master con man, according to people familiar with their contents.The background: The scorched-earth tactics reflect just how worried the Wall Street bank is about the criminal investigations into its role in the theft of at least $2.7 billion from the 1Malaysia Development Berhad sovereign wealth fund, known as 1MDB.What’s at stake: Goldman recently disclosed that it set aside an additional $516 million to cover potential legal and regulatory penalties, including those related to 1MDB. And executives said the bank could owe another $2 billion.More banking news: Goldman reported a rise in fourth-quarter profit to $2.54 billion, or $6.04 a share, from a year ago, easily beating analysts’ expectations. That, along with strong earnings from Bank of America, helped push major indexes higher and suggested that investors had underestimated the health of the economy.John Bogle, a longtime advocate for investors’ rights, founded Vanguard in 1974 and helped build it into a giant asset manager that today handles $4.9 trillion, making it second in size only to BlackRock. He had esophageal cancer, his assistant told the NYT.Mr. Bogle stepped down as chief executive of Vanguard in 1996 and as its chairman at the end of 1999. Last year, his net worth was estimated at $80 million — far less than many of his peers.His constant push to cut the costs of investing put him “squarely into an American tradition of iconoclastic discounters like Henry Ford of Ford Motor, Sam Walton of Walmart and Michael Dell of Dell Inc. — men who built giant companies by selling directly to the consumer at rock-bottom prices,” the WSJ said.Warren Buffett, himself an investing legend, told CNBC that Mr. Bogle “did more for American investors as a whole than any individual I’ve known,” adding:“A lot of Wall Street is devoted to charging a lot for nothing. He charged nothing to accomplish a huge amount.”Late last year, in an interview with Barron’s, Mr. Bogle noted “clouds on the horizon” in 2019 in the form of massive sovereign and corporate debt, “great upheaval” in global trade and “the mystery of Brexit.”“A little extra caution should be the watchword,” he said.Speaker Nancy Pelosi wrote to President Trump suggesting he cancel or postpone his State of the Union address, scheduled for Jan. 29 before a joint session of Congress and a prime time television audience, or that he deliver it in writing instead. She cited security concerns created by the partial government shutdown, the longest in history, which entered its 27th day today.The president has said he won’t compromise with Democrats, telling aides that his determination to build a border wall will be remembered long after the shutdown is forgotten. In moments of frustration, however, he has privately complained about “getting crushed,” write Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni of the NYT.Some other shutdown fallout:• Many of the jobs affected are the best available in their communities, coming with pensions, union membership, vacation days and guaranteed pay increases. Average pay since 2000 has grown twice as fast for federal workers as for private sector employees.• Several hundred thousand government employees are being asked to work without pay, including 2,500 at the Department of Agriculture who are being called back today, Friday and Tuesday. They have little choice but to comply, because of legal challenges, anti-strike laws and their emotional investment in their work.• World Central Kitchen, founded by the celebrity chef Jose Andres, opened an emergency “Chef for Feds” pop-up in Washington that has served more than 2,000 meals. Nate Mook, the nonprofit group’s executive director, called the shutdown a “man-made disaster.”Prime Minister Theresa May narrowly survived a vote of no confidence on Wednesday, allowing her to keep her job and helping Britain avoid a general election as it struggles to prepare for its fast-approaching withdrawal from the European Union.The motion was brought by Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, minutes after Parliament roundly rejected Mrs. May’s Brexit withdrawal plan on Tuesday. He is expected to heavily influence Brexit planning in the following weeks.The gridlock feels almost American. Bucking a long British tradition of lawmakers falling in line with their leader, more than 100 of Mrs. May’s party members rebelled in choosing to vote against her Brexit proposal.Could Brexit invalidate business contracts? In one of the first legal cases to explore how the split will affect deals, an E.U. regulator that is relocating to Amsterdam is claiming that the 25-year lease for its site in London has been “frustrated” by Brexit.Contingency plans for a no-deal departure. Tesco, the largest British supermarket group, is renting refrigerated containers in case of supply disruptions.Federal prosecutors in Seattle are investigating accusations that the Chinese technology giant Huawei stole intellectual property from American companies.The case covers some of the same issues raised in a suit between Huawei, which makes telecommunications equipment and smartphones, and T-Mobile. A jury found against Huawei in that suit in 2017.A bipartisan group of U.S. legislators proposed bills this week to prohibit U.S. chips and other technology being sold to Huawei, ZTE and other Chinese companies said to violate U.S. sanctions or export control laws. Lawmakers have also said that solar panels from Huawei could be hacked, potentially disrupting the flow of electricity in the United States.A Chinese official described the legislation as “hysteria.”Recently, Huawei invited foreign journalists to tour the sprawling campus it’s setting up in Dongguan, which features towns modeled after Paris, Verona and other European cities — an architectural assertion of the company’s global ambitions. Its secretive research unit will occupy a replica castle.Microsoft is putting up half a billion dollars to build more affordable homes in the Seattle area, saying that the tech industry has a responsibility to help people in communities transformed by its growth. It promises housing for the company’s non-tech workers, as well as for teachers, firefighters and other middle- and low-income residents, writes Karen Weise.Less than a year ago, Amazon successfully pushed to block a new tax in Seattle that would have made large businesses fund homeless services and affordable housing.Microsoft has been at the vanguard of warning about the potential negative effects of technology, and executives hope other companies will follow its lead on housing.Diego De Giorgi, Bank of America’s head of global investment banking, is said to be stepping down, four months after the departure of his boss, Christian Meissner, the head of corporate and investment banking. (FT)Deals• Hitachi will pause a $19.3 billion nuclear power project in North Wales as it seeks better financial terms from the British and Japanese governments. (NYT)• Tribune Publishing approached Gannett about reviving merger talks weeks before Gannett became the target of a takeover bid by MNG Enterprises, a hedge fund-backed media group. (WSJ)• The financial technology provider Fiserv agreed to buy the First Data Corporation, a payment processor, in a $22 billion all-stock deal. (Reuters)• Cars.com said it had retained JPMorgan Chase and Latham & Watkins to explore options including a possible sale. (FT)• Germany’s finance ministry asked for a regulator’s analysis of a merger between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, the country’s two biggest private-sector lenders. (FT)• Siemens and Alstom are mounting a last-ditch effort to gain antitrust approval for a rail deal from the European Commission. (Bloomberg)• Disney wants agreements by the end of February from bidders for the regional sports networks it is acquiring from 21st Century Fox. (Bloomberg)Tech• The day after T-Mobile announced a merger last April that needed approval from the Trump administration, nine executives had reservations at the Trump International Hotel. (WaPo)• How Facebook’s secrecy fuels paranoia. (NYT)• Google is raising the prices of its office productivity apps for the first time. (CNBC)• Amazon is jolting the publishing industry by creating instant best sellers out of previously self-published writers. (WSJ)• Palantir Technologies, the data analytics start-up that Peter Thiel helped found, generated nearly $1 billion in revenue last year, roughly half of it from government agencies. (Bloomberg)• Niantic, which makes Pokémon Go, is now worth nearly $4 billion after it raised $245 million from investors including Samsung Ventures. (FT)Politics and policy • Sanctions against companies controlled by Oleg V. Deripaska, an ally of President Vladimir Putin of Russia, are likely to be lifted this week, after a Senate measure to protect them fell three votes short. (NYT)• The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles Grassley, said President Trump was likely to impose tariffs on imported vehicles to extract concessions from the E.U. (Reuters)Best of the rest • The children’s clothing retailer Gymboree Group filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for the second time in nearly two years. It will close more than 800 Gymboree and Crazy 8 stores and sell its upscale Janie and Jack brand. (Reuters)• NewsGuard, a start-up that Steve Brill helped found to help stop false stories spreading on the internet, has signed Microsoft as its first major client. (NYT)• Investment in clean energy slumped 8 percent worldwide last year, even as the number of new projects increased, because the cost of wind and solar technology fell and China slashed solar subsidies. (FT)• The gender pay gap for business school students is 3 percent before school starts but 28 percent five years after graduation, a study found. (FT)• Citigroup, the third largest U.S. bank, said it pays female employees 29 percent less than their male counterparts. (Reuters)• Adam Neumann, WeWork’s chief executive, has made millions of dollars leasing the company properties in which he has an ownership stake. (WSJ)• The singer Beyoncé asked that her lawsuit over the sale of “Feyonce” items by a Texas company, including shirts and mugs marketed to engaged couples, be dismissed. (Reuters)• Alcoa expects demand for aluminum, a barometer of global economic health, to grow more slowly this year than at any time since the financial crisis. (FT)• Airbus will invest $300 million and create 400 jobs at a new factory assembling A220 jetliners in Alabama. It’s receiving $26 million in state and local support. (Reuters)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday. We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTech We’re UsingFor Daisuke Wakabayashi, who covers Google, computer accessories are important. Very important.Featuring Daisuke WakabayashiHow do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Daisuke Wakabayashi, a technology reporter in San Francisco, discussed the tech he’s using.What are your most important tech tools?I’m most particular about the tech products I use as basic tools of my job. I’m a maniac about keyboards and mice; I generally hate most of them. While I use Macs at home and at work, I dislike every Apple keyboard and don’t care for the company’s mice, either. The keys are too flat, I never know if I’ve pressed hard enough, and it hurts my hands after a while.As my colleagues will tell you, I use a very loud mechanical keyboard made by Das Keyboards. These mechanical keyboards are similar to the ones that came with my family’s first IBM computer from the 1980s. I’ve also used the same mouse for the last five years.Aside from that, I use an app called Voice Record Pro on my iPhone for recording interviews. If I’m recording a phone call — with permission, of course — I’ll use an app from Rev, which is also the service I use to have my interviews transcribed. It’s a little steep at $1 per minute, but the accuracy is so much better than the A.I.-only alternatives that cost like 10 cents a minute.Why are you so particular about your mouse and keyboard? I feel like I type faster and more accurately with this keyboard — which is important because I’m already a slow typer. What’s more, the tactile responsiveness when I push a key is so satisfying. It’s silly but it also makes me feel productive, each keystroke an audio reminder that I’m one step closer to my goal.There are drawbacks. The keyboard is not as sleek and visually appealing as the Apple keyboards. They are also super loud, and the click-clacks can be distracting for people around you, as well as unsettling for people you’re on the phone with if you’re taking notes. I’ve often been stopped by sources who ask why I’m typing so feverishly, afraid that I’m pounding the keys because they said something they shouldn’t have. Now, I’ll sometimes take notes by hand using a pen and paper, and then transcribe them later if it’s a sensitive conversation.My mouse for the last five years has been a wireless one from Microsoft. It’s called the Sculpt Ergonomic Mouse. I like this mouse because it has good heft. Some wireless mice are too light, and they dart around like a hyperactive child. I also don’t want too big of a mouse, and then I feel like arm-wrestling with the device. This one provides a good balance. Also the bottom is plastic, and it’s quiet when I move the mouse around on my desk. The Apple ones make this cringey scraping sound. (Again, I acknowledge that I’m crazy when it comes to my computer accessories.)You cover Google, and in a past life you covered Apple. Both are fierce competitors with their own mobile operating systems, internet services, smartphones and computers. What do you see as the challenges for the companies going forward?Apple has focused on creating beautiful, easy-to-use products, but I find that its products are becoming harder to use. I think some of it is just a function of our devices being asked to do more — my iPhone is central to my life in ways that it wasn’t even three years ago — and how do you build in that additional capability without bogging down the software? Apple’s products are still beautiful, but I think that form is overtaking function in some areas. (See: headphone jack, lack of ports on laptops.) A device’s beauty is meaningful only if it is also useful.Google’s issues are different. They’re not purely product questions, but are more fundamental. The company turned 20 last year, and it feels like it’s going through an identity crisis. Google was the anti-Microsoft in the early days. Many of its longtime employees were drawn to Google not purely because it was a moneymaking machine but because it also seemed interested in being a force for good in the tech industry. Who can forget “Don’t Be Evil” and all that? But as Google has grown increasingly dominant, it has become difficult to subscribe to a self-image of a whimsical do-gooder when everyone else sees you as Godzilla trampling across the internet landscape. We’ve already seen some employee revolts, and I suspect we’ll see more. Look at how it is wrestling with what it plans to do with search in China, which shows this identity crisis is filtering into its business and products decisions.Outside of work, what tech product are you and your family currently obsessed with? My wife and I have a 2-year-old son, and he just loves playing with our digital speakers. We have an Amazon Echo in the kitchen and a Google Home upstairs. They’re both connected to Spotify. He knows that he can ask Alexa or Google to play “Wheels on the Bus” or “Baa-Baa Black Sheep” and, voilà, the music comes on.But these days he’s become more particular, and he likes a version of “Wheels on the Bus” performed by Mother Goose Club, so he’ll shout something like, “Alexa, play ‘Wheels on the Bus,’ the goose one, PLEEEEEEEEASE.” (We’ve tried to tell him that Alexa won’t do as he asks unless he says please.) Alexa and Google usually struggle to decipher this request, so Mom and Dad frequently intervene, but occasionally Alexa or Google understands him and he is delighted.His other favorite activity is to ask Google to play sounds of different things. His favorite requests (in no particular order): animals, emergency vehicles and modes of transportation. Recently, he discovered that Google can play the sound of a dinosaur, and this excited him to no end.But now my son thinks anything with an illuminated green ring means it’s a portal for Alexa. Recently, I found him shouting instructions to my wireless iPhone charging pad. It got me thinking, why doesn’t Amazon make an Echo that doubles as a wireless phone charging pad? My toddler the innovator.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew RosenbergWASHINGTON — The academic who helped Cambridge Analytica vacuum up private information from tens of millions of Facebook profiles sued the social media giant on Friday, arguing that the company defamed him when it claimed he had lied about how the data was going to be used.Since the full scope of Cambridge Analytica’s data mining was revealed last year, Facebook has repeatedly tried to shift blame for the privacy breach onto the academic, Aleksandr Kogan. Facebook executives — including the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg — have said Mr. Kogan told Facebook that the data was for academic purposes when it was being collected for use in political campaigns.Mr. Kogan, 32, a former psychology professor, used a quiz app to collect the data, and has insisted that the fine print accompanying his app said the information could be used commercially. That was an outright violation of Facebook’s rules at the time, but the company does not appear to have regularly checked that apps were complying.“Alex did not lie, Alex was not a fraud, Alex did not deceive them, this was not a scam,” said Steve Cohen, a lawyer for Mr. Kogan. “Facebook knew exactly what this app was doing, or should have known. Facebook desperately needed a scapegoat, and Alex was their scapegoat.”Mr. Cohen said Mr. Kogan was not asking for any specific amount of money. “We’re going to leave that to a jury,” he said.In a statement, Liz Bourgeois, a spokeswoman for Facebook, described the action as a “frivolous lawsuit” from someone who “violated our policies and put people’s data at risk.”Cambridge Analytica was founded by Robert Mercer, a wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen K. Bannon, who would serve as an adviser to President Trump. The consulting firm rose to prominence in 2016 for its work with the Trump election campaign.The company claimed it had used Facebook data and other information to develop analytical tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior. Those techniques have been widely questioned.Cambridge hired Mr. Kogan as a contractor in June 2014 — the same month the company was founded — and collected the data throughout the summer by asking Facebook users to take a lengthy personality questionnaire. The quiz harvested data not only from everyone who took it, but also from all their friends.Facebook, which has since tightened its privacy protections, allowed app developers broad access to its users’ data at the time. Many were unaware their data was exposed, and Facebook was plunged into the worst crisis of its 14-year history after the scope of Cambridge Analytica’s data harvesting was revealed by The New York Times and The Observer of London.The company has since said that as many as 87 million users were affected, and it is facing investigations by federal prosecutors and regulators as a result. At least one of those investigations is being run by prosecutors from the Northern District of California, and appears to be partly focused on Facebook’s claims that it was misled by Cambridge.Federal prosecutors in New York are conducting what appears to be a separate criminal investigation into data deals Facebook struck with some of the world’s largest technology companies, including Amazon, Microsoft and Netflix. And the Federal Trade Commission, which spent the past year investigating whether Facebook violated its 2011 agreement about data privacy, is now weighing a multibillion-dollar fine against Facebook. That would be the largest such penalty ever imposed by the trade regulator.Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter @AllMattNYT.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuEvery day for over two and a half years, and sometimes twice a day, immigration agents arrived at several Motel 6 locations in Washington State and, without warrants, were able to obtain the names, birth dates, identification data, room assignments and license plate numbers of every guest.The agents, with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, or ICE, would sometimes circle the names of guests that sounded Latino before targeting them for questioning, detainment and deportation, according to a settlement agreement announced this week by the state’s attorney general, Bob Ferguson.Over the period in question, employees at seven motels gave information related to 80,000 guests to the agents, violating the company’s privacy policy, Mr. Ferguson’s office said on Thursday. To resolve a lawsuit the office filed against Motel 6 last year, the chain agreed to pay $12 million, much of it in damages to guests who were affected.Motel 6, which is owned by the private equity firm Blackstone Group and has 1,400 locations in North America, also signed a legally binding commitment to stop volunteering guest information absent a warrant anywhere in the United States.“Motel 6’s actions tore families apart and violated the privacy rights of tens of thousands of Washingtonians,” Mr. Ferguson said in a statement. The company owns and operates 26 motels in Washington, according to his office.Mr. Ferguson’s office began its investigation after seeing media reports about two Motel 6 locations in Phoenix cooperating with ICE in 2017, a practice the company acknowledged.In November, Motel 6 agreed to pay up to $8.9 million to settle a class-action lawsuit in Federal District Court in Arizona claiming that the two motels had invaded guests’ privacy and discriminated against them.In Washington, Mr. Ferguson’s office said, ICE agents received guest information from employees in Bellingham, North Everett, South Everett, South Seattle, South Tacoma and at two locations near the Seattle airport.Guest lists were often printed in advance of the agents’ visits, and new employees at some of the locations were trained to prepare forms for the agents to sign once the lists were handed over.The arrangement led to the detentions of at least nine Washington residents, Mr. Ferguson’s office said. One man, who was spending a night in a motel near the Seattle airport to wrap Christmas presents for his children, was approached by ICE agents in the parking lot and subsequently deported, according to the attorney general.Another man, who had lived in the United States since the age of 1, was detained for six days after ICE agents approached him as he was retrieving milk for his infant from his car, Mr. Ferguson’s office said. He was replaced by his employer and later struggled to find work.As part of the settlement agreement, Motel 6 agreed to train its employees to request authorization from the company’s legal department before providing personal information, unless guests were in danger.“The safety and security of our guests, which includes protecting guest information, is our top priority, and we are pleased to be able to reach resolution in this matter,” the company said in a statement.Officials at ICE could not be reached for comment.Over the summer, amid an uproar over the separation of migrant children from their parents as part of the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy on illegal immigration, workers at several technology companies and management consulting firms urged their employers to cut ties with ICE.More than 100 Microsoft employees signed an open letter protesting a $19.4 million contract with immigration authorities. McKinsey & Company said in July that it had stopped working with the agency. Deloitte workers called for the firm to end its consulting projects with ICE, distributing a petition that cited “moral objections.”Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIt’s not easy to encourage the ethical use of artificial intelligence. But here are 10 recommendations.By Cade MetzAbout seven years ago, three researchers at the University of Toronto built a system that could analyze thousands of photos and teach itself to recognize everyday objects, like dogs, cars and flowers.The system was so effective that Google bought the tiny start-up these researchers were only just getting off the ground. And soon, their system sparked a technological revolution. Suddenly, machines could “see” in a way that was not possible in the past.This made it easier for a smartphone app to search your personal photos and find the images you were looking for. It accelerated the progress of driverless cars and other robotics. And it improved the accuracy of facial recognition services, for social networks like Facebook and for the country’s law enforcement agencies.But soon, researchers noticed that these facial recognition services were less accurate when used with women and people of color. Activists raised concerns over how companies were collecting the huge amounts of data needed to train these kinds of systems. Others worried these systems would eventually lead to mass surveillance or autonomous weapons.How should we, as a society, deal with these issues? Many have asked the question. Not everyone can agree on the answers. Google sees things differently from Microsoft. A few thousand Google employees see things differently from Google. The Pentagon has its own vantage point.This week, at the New Work Summit, hosted by The New York Times, conference attendees worked in groups to compile a list of recommendations for building and deploying ethical artificial intelligence. The results are included here.But even the existence of this list sparked controversy. Some attendees, who have spent years studying these issues, questioned whether a group of randomly selected people were the best choice for deciding the future of artificial intelligence.One thing is for sure: The discussion will only continue in the months and years to come.Transparency Companies should be transparent about the design, intention and use of their A.I. technology.Disclosure Companies should clearly disclose to users what data is being collected and how it is being used.Privacy Users should be able to easily opt out of data collection.Diversity A.I. technology should be developed by inherently diverse teams.Bias Companies should strive to avoid bias in A.I. by drawing on diverse data sets.Trust Organizations should have internal processes to self-regulate the misuse of A.I. Have a chief ethics officer, ethics board, etc.Accountability There should be a common set of standards by which companies are held accountable for the use and impact of their A.I. technology.Collective governance Companies should work together to self-regulate the industry.Regulation Companies should work with regulators to develop appropriate laws to govern the use of A.I.“Complementarity” Treat A.I. as tool for humans to use, not a replacement for human work.The leaders of the groups: Frida Polli, a founder and chief executive, Pymetrics; Sara Menker, founder and chief executive, Gro Intelligence; Serkan Piantino, founder and chief executive, Spell; Paul Scharre, director, Technology and National Security Program, The Center for a New American Security; Renata Quintini, partner, Lux Capital; Ken Goldberg, William S. Floyd Jr. distinguished chair in engineering, University of California, Berkeley; Danika Laszuk, general manager, Betaworks Camp; Elizabeth Joh, Martin Luther King Jr. Professor of Law, University of California, Davis; Candice Morgan, head of inclusion and diversity, PinterestCade Metz is a technology correspondent, covering artificial intelligence, driverless cars, robotics, virtual reality, and other emerging areas. He previously wrote for Wired magazine.   @cademetz AdvertisementThe Commerce Department is considering national security restrictions on artificial intelligence. Some worry they could stunt the industry in the U.S.CreditCreditChris KoehlerSupported byBy Cade MetzSAN FRANCISCO — A common belief among tech industry insiders is that Silicon Valley has dominated the internet because much of the worldwide network was designed and built by Americans.Now a growing number of those insiders are worried that proposed export restrictions could short-circuit the pre-eminence of American companies in the next big thing to hit their industry, artificial intelligence.In November, the Commerce Department released a list of technologies, including artificial intelligence, that are under consideration for new export rules because of their importance to national security.Technology experts worry that blocking the export of A.I. to other countries, or tying it up in red tape, will help A.I. industries flourish in those nations — China, in particular — and compete with American companies.“The number of cases where exports can be sufficiently controlled are very, very, very small, and the chance of making an error is quite large,” said Jack Clark, head of policy at OpenAI, an artificial intelligence lab in San Francisco. “If this goes wrong, it could do real damage to the A.I. community.”The export controls are being considered as the United States and China engage in a trade war. The Trump administration has been critical of the way China negotiates deals with American companies, often requiring the transfer of technology to Chinese partners as the cost of doing business in the country. And federal officials are making an aggressive argument that China has stolen American technology through hacking and industrial espionage.Tech companies, academics and policymakers are calling on the Commerce Department to take a light hand with A.I. export rules ahead of a Jan. 10 deadline for public comment. Their argument has three main points: Restrictions could harm companies in the United States and help international competitors. They could stifle technology improvements. And they may not make much of a difference.In August, Congress passed the Export Controls Act of 2018, which added export restrictions to “emerging and foundational technologies.” In mid-November, the Commerce Department, tasked with overseeing the restrictions, published a list of technologies for consideration, including several categories of A.I. like computer vision, speech recognition and natural language understanding.The restrictions would affect the export of technology to certain countries. Though it does not specify which ones, the Commerce Department proposal points to countries that have faced trade and arms embargoes in the past. Those include China, Russia and Iran.The Commerce Department declined to comment on the proposed restrictions. After taking public comments, the department will draft a formal plan. It could result in anything from new licensing rules for A.I. exports to outright bans.Artificial intelligence could be as vital to the tech industry as the World Wide Web was 25 years ago.It is easy to forget that before the mid-1990s, the tech industry in the United States was in a slump and the consumer electronics giants of Japan looked unbeatable. That changed as Silicon Valley companies popularized innovations like the web browser and e-commerce. Today, the likes of Google, Apple and Facebook dominate tech all over the world.But American dominion in artificial intelligence is far from guaranteed. China is investing billions in A.I. for both commercial and military use. And the expertise that has flooded to Silicon Valley over the years is starting to stay home, partly because of immigration restrictions. Centers for A.I. research are popping up all over the world, from Toronto to Cambridge, England, and Beijing.Enforcing export controls on artificial intelligence would present an unusual challenge for regulators.A.I. is something policymakers call a dual-use technology. It has innocuous commercial applications, like helping to steer your car or ask your phone a question. It also has important military uses, like helping a weaponized drone find its targets.Defense planners believe A.I. represents the next notable change in military weapons, akin to the tactical targeting of so-called smart bombs a generation ago or nuclear weapons before that. A.I. can also aid surveillance systems and even disinformation campaigns through software that can produce fake photos and videos.But “trying to draw a line between what is military and what is commercial is exceedingly difficult,” said R. David Edelman, a technology policy researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “It may be impossible.”It is difficult to put a “made in America” label on artificial intelligence. Research on the technology is often done collaboratively by scientists and engineers all over the world.Companies rarely hold on to the details of their A.I. work, as if it were a secret recipe. Instead, they share what they learn, in hopes that other researchers can build on it. One company’s “breakthrough” is often the latest iteration of what many researchers at private companies and universities have been working on.A lot of the computer code for A.I. is published on sites like Arxiv.org, a repository of academic and corporate research. So, many policy experts believe that if the United States restricts the export of A.I. products and services, it will have little effect on the progress of A.I. in China and other countries.“The core of these technologies is international and freely available,” said Mr. Edelman, who was a special assistant for economic and technology policy under President Barack Obama. “No country — the U.S. or China — has a monopoly on that.”Federal regulations exempt publicly available information from export control. That means that the government is unlikely to bar companies and universities from publishing fundamental A.I. research. But it could establish controls that restrict foreign access to that information, said Greg Jaeger, a lawyer at the law firm Stroock & Stroock & Lavan who deals with export controls.The Commerce Department could also restrict the export of cloud-computing technology and computer chips related to artificial intelligence. The export restrictions memo mentions both.Amazon and Microsoft already operate cloud computing businesses in China through local partners, and Google has long hoped to do the same thing. Amazon, Google and Microsoft declined to comment.Overly restrictive rules that prevent foreign nationals from working on certain technologies in the United States could also push researchers and companies into other countries.“It might be easier for people to just do this stuff in Europe,” said Jason Waite, a lawyer with the firm Alston & Bird who specializes in international trade.Follow Cade Metz on Twitter: @CadeMetzAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Alexandra Stevenson and Amie TsangStocks rose on Monday, buoyed by the efforts of central bankers to ease economic worries, as investors watched for developments in trade talks between the United States and China.Trade negotiators from Washington and Beijing began discussions aimed at reaching an agreement that would end a trade war between the two countries. The United States and China have agreed to a standstill until early March so that they may reach a deal.The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent, while the Nasdaq composite gained 1.3 percent as shares of large technology companies like Amazon and Netflix rose sharply.After its shares rose 3.4 percent, Amazon ended the day with a market value of $797 billion, leapfrogging Microsoft to make it the largest company, by market capitalization, in the United States.[Read more about how President Trump sees China’s recent economic weakness as an opportunity.]As the trade war drags on, however, investors have grown worried about its economic impact as well as the risk to corporate profits. Those worries were amplified last week when Apple warned that its sales in the most recent quarter would be worse than expected because of slowing demand for iPhones in China. And the rising cost of imports is also affecting businesses in the United States.[Read more about American factory owners who say the trade war is hurting them.]Offsetting those concerns, on Friday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Jerome H. Powell, said the Fed would be flexible amid market turbulence and broader concerns about slowing global growth. The comments sent shares in the United States higher, as did strong job numbers for December.Also on Friday, the People’s Bank of China essentially injected $218 billion into the country’s financial system. The move was intended to ease lending in the Chinese economy, which has experienced weaker factory output and consumer confidence.Asian shares ended higher Monday, while Europe’s major indexes pared early gains to close lower.The Nikkei 225 index in Japan jumped 2.4 percent, and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong closed 0.8 percent higher. In China, the Shanghai composite index rose 0.7 percent, and the Shenzhen composite index rallied 1.7 percent.The Euro Stoxx 50 index of European blue chips closed 0.3 percent lower, and the CAC 40 in France and FTSE 100 Britain were down about 0.4 percent. The Dax in Germany was 0.2 percent lower.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Weise and Thomas KaplanDeap Ubhi is a restless guy. At 26, he quit his job in private equity in Northern California, where he had grown up and gone to college, and then moved to India to found Burrp!, a local search site similar to Yelp. He sold the company in 2009 and along with other alums became what they called the Burrp! mafia, seeding and growing other start-ups in India.“Fast and is extremely straightforward,” one Indian entrepreneur wrote about Mr. Ubhi in an online reference. “Not for the faint of heart.”After returning to the West Coast, he joined Amazon in 2014 to encourage start-ups to adopt the company’s cloud-computing products. But in less than two years, Mr. Ubhi left to start a company that provided technology to restaurants, inspired by his family’s experience running an Indian-Jamaican-Mexican fusion joint.He then shifted his career in a new direction, taking his Silicon Valley mentality to the heart of the Washington bureaucracy. He joined a Pentagon effort to recruit techies, and turned the restaurant start-up into a side hustle. He wanted to use his skills not “to make a search engine more performant, or help a box of stuff get to a customer faster; but rather towards service of the American people,” Mr. Ubhi later wrote.But that circuitous career has landed Mr. Ubhi, now 39, in the center of a Washington drama. The question of what roles he played inside the Pentagon, and when, is holding up one of the largest federal information technology contracts in history. It is a scuffle with an unusual mixture of tech industry rivalries, national politics and the obscure world of government procurement.The project, a $10 billion deal to bring modern cloud computing to the Pentagon’s arsenal, drew the attention of the biggest tech companies from the moment it was announced in 2017. Amazon, Microsoft, Google, IBM and Oracle all wanted the prize.But it had a hitch: The contract would go to only one cloud vendor, even though many big companies prefer to work with multiple cloud providers. Amazon, the runaway leader in cloud computing, appeared to be perhaps the only company capable of fulfilling the Pentagon’s huge demands. And that is where Mr. Ubhi’s connections to the company, where he now works again, have thrown a wrench into the process.The software giant Oracle, which is widely considered ill equipped to land the deal, has aggressively criticized the one-vendor approach. As part of its opposition, the company is arguing in federal court that Mr. Ubhi’s ties to Amazon shaped the contract in the company’s favor.Before the case was filed last year, the Pentagon found that Mr. Ubhi had no improper influence, and it continued evaluating the proposals despite Oracle’s lawsuit. But in late February, the government said it had received “new information” about Mr. Ubhi that it needed to investigate, essentially delaying the process.A Pentagon spokeswoman, Elissa Smith, declined to say what new information about Mr. Ubhi had been brought to the department’s attention. The Pentagon had said that the winner of the contract was projected to be announced in April. But Ms. Smith said the inquiry into Mr. Ubhi was “expected to impact the award date.”Mr. Ubhi, contacted through Amazon, declined to comment, as did the company.Oracle also declined to comment. But in its lawsuit, Oracle has highlighted Mr. Ubhi’s outspoken enthusiasm for Amazon. In early 2017, he took to Twitter to thank Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder, for opposing President Trump’s travel ban. “Once an Amazonian, always an Amazonian,” he wrote.The comments touch on an issue floating around discussions about the contract: whether Mr. Trump would put his finger on the scale. The president’s disdain for Mr. Bezos and Amazon is well documented on his Twitter feed. At a private dinner with Mr. Trump, one of Oracle’s co-chief executives, Safra A. Catz, discussed the contract, Bloomberg reported last year. After that report, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said Mr. Trump was “not involved” in the contracting process.By the standards of most administrations, it would be extraordinarily unusual for the president to insert himself into the competition for a government contract. But when Mr. Trump was president-elect, he drew attention for taking on Boeing over the cost of a new Air Force One aircraft and pressing Lockheed Martin over the cost of the F-35 fighter jet.If Mr. Trump went so far as to say “who should compete, or how one company should be evaluated compared to another, that would be a first,” said David A. Drabkin, a former procurement official at the Defense Department.A Defense Department procurement official is formally overseeing the cloud contract, known as the joint enterprise defense infrastructure, or JEDI. But Ms. Smith declined to identify the officials who would be involved with choosing the winner.A White House official reiterated on Wednesday that the president was not involved.The military has lagged behind the private sector in adopting cloud computing, but officials have made clear that they know the stakes. The Pentagon’s move to the cloud has been led by the chief information officer, Dana Deasy, a former global chief information officer at JPMorgan Chase.“Battlefield advantage is driven by who has access to the best information that can then be analyzed to inform decision making at the point and time of need,” Mr. Deasy wrote last year.Adopting technologies widely used in the private sector is key to the mission of the defense digital service, the Pentagon tech team Mr. Ubhi joined in 2016. It is unclear what Mr. Ubhi worked on during most of his time in government. But in his last two months, during fall 2017, he did market research for JEDI, according to the Pentagon.In court documents, Oracle argues that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI when the Pentagon decided to take the approach of hiring a single cloud provider. Oracle cites internal documents in which Mr. Ubhi expressed support for a single cloud. When the Air Force awarded a different cloud project to multiple vendors, Mr. Ubhi wrote that the contract “makes me weep.”Oracle says Mr. Ubhi clearly favored Amazon over other tech companies. In an online chat conversation on Slack about another cloud-computing provider, he sent a closed-eyes, tongue-out emoji.Amazon has countered that the Pentagon identified 72 people substantially involved in developing the contract and its requirements, and that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI for only seven weeks, in the early stages.At the end of October 2017, Mr. Ubhi recused himself from JEDI, saying Amazon and his restaurant start-up, Tablehero, “may soon engage in further partnership discussions.” Two weeks later, he resigned and then rejoined Amazon, where he still works on the commercial, not government, side of the business, the company said.There is no evidence that Amazon bought Tablehero. Dheeraj Jain, an investor in Tablehero, said Mr. Ubhi has not responded to emails. “We have written off this investment, unfortunately,” he added. “And we are not happy about it.”The Pentagon released the JEDI request for proposals nine months after Mr. Ubhi recused himself. It said a single cloud would let it move faster and with more security, a decision the Government Accountability Office later affirmed.Because Amazon appeared to have a leg up, the contract immediately became a point of contention among tech contractors. Both Oracle and IBM filed protests with the Government Accountability Office, which adjudicates federal contract challenges. The office denied Oracle’s protest and later rejected IBM’s on procedural grounds. Oracle, whose cloud market share is small enough to be grouped in the “other” category in several leading research reports, took its fight to the United States Court of Federal Claims.The delays from the Oracle lawsuit could help Microsoft. In the months since the request for proposals went out, the company, which has supplied the Pentagon for decades, has improved its capabilities to the point that some experts believe it is an increasingly credible competitor to Amazon.But even if Mr. Ubhi is found to have tainted the contract, it is not clear that it would change the Pentagon’s plan to use a single cloud provider. The Government Accountability Office in November found that the Pentagon’s justifications “reasonably support” the decision. The office said it would be “improper” to go against what the Pentagon determined was best for the country, even if Mr. Ubhi had shaped the contract.When he was working on the project, Mr. Ubhi said that bolstering national security was the point.In October 2017, he wrote in a blog post that he believed his work on JEDI would “be a unique asset to help our men and women in uniform make more data-driven decisions, and to allow our leadership to be more effective.”Little did he know, it seems, that his work on it could put the project on pause, or, if Oracle has its way, in jeopardy.Kate Conger contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.Follow Karen Weise and Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @kyweise and @thomaskaplan.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)As consumers, workers and communities push back against the seemingly boundless power and wealth of big tech companies, they’re starting to find it may be harder than it sounds to quit corporations that provide now-crucial services.My colleague Kate Conger, who covers privacy, policy and labor for The Times’s Tech team, wrote about a Berkeley City Council proposal to boycott Amazon:Under state law, no city in California is allowed to share data with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. But city officials have been left to determine how they’ll comply with the law — and many cities are now scrutinizing the behavior of the tech companies they rely on for city services.Richmond approved an ordinance in June that will end its contract with Vigilant Solutions, a data analytics company that does business with ICE. Other Bay Area cities, including Oakland, Berkeley and Alameda are weighing similar proposals that, if enacted, could lead the cities to sever ties with tech giants like Amazon and Microsoft.Berkeley’s City Council is currently weighing a proposal to boycott Amazon in protest against the tech giant’s contracts with ICE and Customs and Border Protection. Given Amazon’s business relationships with these agencies, Berkeley should “commit to finding ethical alternatives,” two City Council members, Kriss Worthington and Cheryl Davila, wrote in a memo. The City Council is also scrutinizing its business with Microsoft and Thompson Reuters over the companies’ ICE contracts.“We’re subsidizing these deportation policies,” said Brian Hofer, a lawyer who has pushed cities to adopt legislation that limits their business relationships with tech firms that contract with ICE.The Berkeley City Council is expected to debate the proposed legislation this month. Berkeley, which was at the forefront of the sanctuary city movement, relies on Amazon for a range of web-hosting and infrastructure services. Now, the city is struggling to align its sanctuary traditions with its digital needs.Dee Williams-Ridley, the city manager, recommended against the boycott because it would be too costly for the city to move off Amazon. “Adoption of the proposed Amazon boycott would have a huge negative impact to the citywide operations,” Ms. Williams-Ridley wrote in a memo reviewed by The New York Times. The city uses Amazon to host housing and mental health programs, do cybersecurity, and to manage city documents. It also relies on other tech companies, such as Airbnb and Nextdoor, which in turn host their services on Amazon servers.“I sort of despair about what we can do at this local level, frankly,” said Kate Harrison, a member of the City Council. “If we identify a company involved in data brokerage for ICE, and we have an alternative, we should take the alternative. It’s a balancing act.”Mr. Hofer said that the impact would be stronger as more cities pass similar legislation and that he hoped to bring the initiative statewide. Starting in Silicon Valley is important because of the region’s connection to the technology industry, he added. “It’s symbolic that we’re doing it here; we’re the same people that are creating the technology that’s doing this,” Mr. Hofer said.“It’s ideological and not necessarily grounded in practicality,” said Susan Wengraf, a City Council member. “It’s Berkeley,” she added with a soft laugh. “What can I tell you?”(We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• As a lobbyist, David Bernhardt fought on behalf of California farmers to weaken Endangered Species Act protections for a tiny fish so they could access water. Now, as an official at the Interior Department who’s drawn President Trump’s notice, Mr. Bernhardt is the latest in a line of federal officials hired to regulate industries they once worked for. [The New York Times]• What’s going on in the struggle to control Pacific Gas and Electric? Here’s the latest. [The New York Times]• The border wall has taken a back seat in congressional negotiations to another issue that has exploded recently: immigrant detention. Here’s why. [The New York Times]• A man unleashed a hail of gunfire at a cafe in San Diego’s Hillcrest neighborhood on Wednesday, officials said. The police are investigating whether the shooting, which rattled an L.G.B.T.Q. community already on edge, was a hate crime. No one was hit. [The San Diego Union-Tribune]• Willie McCoy, a 21-year-old rapper known as Willie Bo, was sleeping in his car at a Taco Bell before he was shot and killed by the Vallejo police. Officers said he reached for a handgun in his lap when they told him to show his hands. His family is calling for answers. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• As a storm borne by an “atmospheric river” drenches the Bay Area, in the Sierra Nevada, meteorologists are warning of “roofalanches.” [The Mercury News]• A mountain lion that researchers had recently started tracking in the Napa area was shot dead after it preyed on a family’s livestock. Its death led to anger from community members. [The Press Democrat]• A bubble gum pink drive-in movie theater showing a film about fish is one piece of the Desert X art exhibition, which is open at sites around the Coachella Valley through April 21. [The New York Times]• Activision Blizzard, the Santa Monica-based video game publisher, said it was laying off 800 people this week. But stop blaming Fortnite. [Wired]• Somehow, Los Angeles doesn’t have the worst traffic in the country, a new report says. (Boston, Washington D.C., Chicago and New York all had it worse during peak commuting hours.) Angelenos, on average, still spent 128 hours stuck on the road last year, though. [Curbed LA]• Randolph Jewelers, a Placerville shop that opened in the Gold Rush era, is set to close. It’s the oldest continuously operating jewelry store in the state, and shopping there became a kind of rite of passage for locals. [The Sacramento Bee]It’s Valentine’s Day. Maybe rethink the roses and read a tiny California love story instead. Here’s a funny, sweet one from Hilary Burg:We first saw each other at Peet’s on Lakeshore in Oakland. Then he rescued a dog. We frequented the same dog park in Piedmont. One time, his dog jumped on me. I told him to get his dog trained. He turned from me in a huff. I joked another day about his dog’s drool. He looked mad. He does NOT like me at all, I thought to myself. Still, I ALWAYS stopped at the dog park if I saw his red Nissan. Turns out he loved me and I loved him back. We’ve been together with various dogs for 20 years.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest._____1. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi postponed an official trip to Europe and Afghanistan over security concerns after President Trump grounded her military flight and White House officials leaked a secret plan for her to fly commercially.It was the latest turn in a bitter tit-for-tat between the president and Ms. Pelosi, who asked Mr. Trump on Wednesday to postpone his State of the Union address.Late in the day Friday, Mr. Trump tweeted he would be making a “major announcement” about the southern border and government shutdown at 3 p.m. on Saturday from the White House.Separately, Democratic lawmakers pledged to investigate a report that President Trump directed his former lawyer Michael Cohen to lie to Congress._____2. President Trump plans to meet again with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in February to push the North to begin denuclearization.Negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear arsenal have made little progress since the two leaders’ first meeting in Singapore last June, above, and the new meeting is a sign of how quickly the president has backed away from his initial insistence on fast action by Pyongyang.The announcement came after Mr. Trump met for 90 minutes in the Oval Office with Mr. Kim’s chief nuclear negotiator.The date and location of the meeting will be announced later, the White House said. Vietnam, Thailand and Hawaii have all been mentioned as potential sites._____3. Winter is here.A major storm has swept across the Rockies and should reach the Midwest and Northeast over the three-day holiday weekend, bringing heavy snow, strong winds and frigid temperatures.The system is expected to snarl travel, with winter weather advisories stretching from the Dakotas to Maine. Extreme cold will follow for tens of millions of people.Bundle up, and visit nytimes.com for updates. While you’re waiting, check out these early Times photographs of snowstorms in New York in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Above, a 1914 blizzard._____4. A white Chicago police officer was sentenced to nearly 7 years in prison for murdering Laquan McDonald, a black teenager who became a national symbol of police brutality.Jason Van Dyke, above, is the city’s first patrolman in almost 50 years to be convicted of murder. He was also sentenced for 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm, one for every bullet he fired on that October night in 2014.The killing was captured in a dashcam video seen by millions of horrified viewers. Though an appeal is likely, the sentence provided a measure of finality in a case that exposed the city’s racial divisions and upended its government._____5. RCA Records has dropped R. Kelly, the R&B star accused of decades of misconduct, after weeks of protests and a documentary series that drew national attention.Mr. Kelly, once one of the biggest and most influential stars in pop music, has been dogged by accusations of sexual misconduct since the mid-1990s, when he was sued by women who said he had engaged in sexual activity with them when they were as young as 15.A campaign on social media, #MuteRKelly, asked entertainment companies to stop doing business with Mr. Kelly. The pressure intensified this month after Lifetime broadcast a six-part documentary series, “Surviving R. Kelly,” which included on-camera testimonials by numerous women who said Mr. Kelly had abused them while they were underage._____6. Microsoft made a $500 million pledge this week to help address the affordable housing crisis in the Seattle area.And the company isn’t simply writing checks or building new units — it’s trying to help fix a market failure, a job government typically does.The announcement is welcome news in the region, where housing costs have risen faster lately than in any other part of the country, like the Ballard neighborhood, above. But the fact that a tech company has to step in points to a long-building reality nationwide: The federal government has largely retreated from this role.As Microsoft unveiled its plans, the Department of Housing and Urban Development remained largely shuttered in Washington during the government shutdown._____7. Divorce is always complicated — even more so when a company’s future is on the line.The announcement that Jeff Bezos and his wife, Mackenzie, are splitting up instantly raised questions about the couple’s $140 billion stake in Amazon.Amazon’s investors should be paying attention, our business columnist writes. So should investors in other companies with billionaire founders: Google, Facebook and Snap to name a few. These entrepreneurs often hold special classes of stock that give them extra power.More such breakups are inevitable — after all, many tech founders are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis._____8. The streets are closed in Cremona, Italy, and the mayor has asked citizens for silence. Even a broken glass may trigger a police visit.Cremona was once home to Antonio Stradivari, who in the 17th and 18th centuries produced some of the finest violins and cellos ever made. And an ambitious project to digitally record the sounds of his instruments requires absolute quiet.Sound engineers using 32 ultrasensitive microphones are producing a database to store all the possible tones that four instruments selected from the Museo del Violino’s collection can produce. The quiet, and the recording, lasts through January._____9. “When it’s blue sky and you’re on the polar plateau, you can feel so small.”Colin O’Brady, 33, right, and Louis Rudd, 49, spent almost two months racing solo across Antarctica, a journey that killed an explorer who attempted it in 2016. They faced wind chills around minus 70 degrees Fahrenheit, whiteout days with little visibility and isolation, for starters.Back in warmer climates, they spoke about the race of a lifetime.“It’s just endless, and you’re like this tiny little speck,” Mr. Brady said. “You are the only tiny little thing out there in this endless sea of light.”_____10. Finally, it’s not just humans looking for love online.Romeo was a lonely male Bolivian Sehuencas water frog, thought to be the last of his kind. So conservationists made a dating profile for him — as a fund-raiser — and raised enough to send a team into the cloud forest to find his Juliet.And find her they did. Researchers have high hopes that the species will be saved, as soon as Juliet is out of quarantine for disease testing.After all, one scientist said, “We don’t want Romeo to get sick on the first date.”Have a fulfilling weekend.We’re off for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday on Monday and will be back Tuesday._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David Streitfeld and Don ClarkSAN FRANCISCO — Don’t look now: Storm clouds are gathering over tech.Chinese consumers have pulled back their spending, blowing a $9 billion hole in Apple’s recent quarterly revenue. China was again a culprit when Nvidia warned last month that its revenue would come in 20 percent below expectations, though the graphics chip maker also blamed slack demand from Bitcoin miners and cloud data centers.Intel, the big chip maker, cited intensifying “trade and macro concerns” for financial results in January that did not meet expectations. And Samsung, another semiconductor powerhouse, said sales plunged 10 percent in the fourth quarter because of weakening demand for its memory chips from data centers and smartphones.China, smartphones, Bitcoin and cloud computing have been among the major drivers of the long tech boom, which in turn has powered the global economy for the last decade. The ingredient common to all of these sectors is computer chips, which form the brains of devices and whose ubiquity means they provide early signals about changes in supply and demand.Warnings about a sales slowdown this year have come in recent weeks from big chip suppliers that also include Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Micron Technology and Western Digital. It’s an abrupt reversal, coming on the heels of stellar results in 2018 for the business that gave Silicon Valley its name.Last year, manufacturers shipped a staggering 1 trillion chips and other semiconductor devices, 10 percent more than the year before, IC Insights estimates. But 2019 is shaping up to be a much different story, now that several important sources of chip demand appear to be dampening.The notion that a chip dip could lead to a general downturn evokes memories of 2000, when one day tech had an unlimited future and the next it was crashing in what became known as the dot-com bust.Back then, investors showed no mercy. Intel made what seemed a modest adjustment to its revenue forecast for the third quarter of 2000, saying it would be up 3 to 5 percent instead of 7 to 9 percent. The value of the company immediately fell by nearly 30 percent over the next few days.This year, with a similar downgrade, investors largely shrugged it off. Intel shed about 5 percent of its value over a week.While acknowledging the parallels to 2000, Gene Munster, research director for Loup Ventures, a venture capital firm, said, “I think it’s different this time.”Back then, among the best customers for the established chip firms were start-ups, which had more dreams than revenue. As the start-ups faltered, the chip firms were imperiled. The storm lasted for years.“These are all real companies now, with real customers,” Mr. Munster said. “People are willing to look past a few bumpy months.”Even if the problems do not linger, they are a reminder that demand is not eternal. That seems to be what happened with smartphones, which use multiple varieties of chips to run software, process data and connect to cellular networks.Consider Apple, which gave a muted forecast in October for the holiday season and followed up early last month with its first full-fledged revenue warning in 16 years. The iPhone maker faces stiff competition and slumping demand in China. Total smartphone shipments fell 15 percent in that country in the fourth quarter, according to research firm Canalys.Michael Wolf, who surveys consumers annually about their technology and media usage for his management consulting firm Activate, said people seem to be shifting to lower-priced phone models and cheaper service plans. But he said demand seems strong for digital subscription services like Netflix, video games, online advertising and business-to-business sales for companies like Microsoft.“From all of our research, I don’t see some general consumer malaise,” Mr. Wolf said.Yet several other businesses appear to be softening as well, including the market for server systems used by cloud service operators, including Amazon, Microsoft and Google. Sales of high-priced chips for such hardware have driven profits for companies like Intel and Nvidia, but they now say that equipment buyers for data centers have turned cautious.“Cloud service providers shifted from building capacity to absorbing capacity,” Robert Swan, who was then Intel’s chief financial officer and acting chief executive, said on a conference call after Intel released its fourth-quarter results. (On Thursday, Mr. Swan became Intel’s chief executive.)Longtime tech industry watchers began picking up trouble signs late last spring in the market for memory chips, an essential component in computers that in decades past prompted trade tensions between the United States and rivals in Japan and South Korea. Makers of a key category called dynamic random-access memory, or DRAM, have suffered product shortages and gluts that whipsawed pricing and heralded changing fortunes for the broader industry.During the dot-com bust of 2001, DRAM revenue plummeted 63 percent while total semiconductor revenue fell 31 percent, according to Gartner data.But conditions changed dramatically over the years as manufacturers fled from the lack of profits, leaving three major DRAM makers — Samsung, Hynix and Micron. They have been slow to boost production, enabling them to keep their prices high. And they also benefited as memory became more important in smartphones, data center hardware and other products beyond the personal computers that once drove most sales.“The markets today are structurally different,” Sanjay Mehrotra, Micron’s chief executive, said in a recent interview.Yet market cycles haven’t disappeared entirely. DRAM prices peaked last June and began sliding, prompting Micron and Samsung to issue their recent profit warnings. DRAMeXchange, a Taiwan-based firm that tracks the market, predicts DRAM prices will fall an additional 20 percent in the first quarter.Memory chips “behave like onions or steel or any other commodity,” said Jim Handy, a market researcher at Objective Analysis. “If there is an oversupply, prices fall.”Nvidia presents an extreme example of both boom and bust. The 25-year-old company, which pioneered the specialized processors that generate images in video games, became one of Silicon Valley’s most valuable companies in 2017 as those chips were adapted for artificial intelligence uses by internet giants.But Nvidia’s processors also became extremely popular for the mathematical process of mining digital currency, driving a surge in demand that inflated prices and created a shortage of chips. Buyers wound up placing multiple or overly ambitious orders, making it hard for the company to get a handle on conventional demand for its technology.The cryptocurrency bubble faded suddenly last year, causing Nvidia’s revenue and stock price to tumble as the company wound up with extra inventories of unsold chips. The crypto issue “ended up being way, way bigger” for the company than expected, said Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Rosenblatt Securities. “It’s been a crazy story.”For all the turmoil, industry executives and analysts said that business conditions remain a lot healthier than past semiconductor slumps. For one thing, a series of mergers has reduced price competition. Companies like Micron, which routinely lost money in past cycles, are expected to remain solidly profitable even if sales dip.Beyond that, there is the glorious future.“Eventually the storm will pass and these companies — Nvidia, Apple, Samsung — will have a pole position in the next tech growth curve, including A.I., health care, self-driving cars, 5G,” said Mr. Munster, the Loup analyst. “The curve is so exciting, so juicy, so full of opportunity.”Follow David Streitfeld and Don Clark on Twitter: @DavidStreitfeld and @donal888.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThankfully, monopoly power is shaping up as a central issue in the 2020 campaign.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in antitrust.Senator Elizabeth Warren’s announcement on Friday of a plan to break up major tech monopolies like Facebook and Google was critically important — not just as a policy proposal, but also as a sign of the return of antitrust to politics.In the United States, economic policy is ostensibly a matter of democratic governance, but for too long antitrust has been viewed as a technocratic matter best left to experts. This is a mistake: Excessive corporate size and power can be linked to many voter concerns, including stagnant wages, the invasion of privacy, the rise of fake news, the demise of the middle class and an unresponsive democracy.Antitrust is especially salient today because we witness the tremendous power of the tech monopolies firsthand, in our daily lives. Nearly everyone uses Facebook, Google, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft, and nearly everyone can see how smaller businesses have been hurt by their dominance. Nearly everyone has an opinion about whether they are too powerful, whether they know too much, whether they ought to be admired or feared.Add to these concerns the dangers of agricultural monopolies, rising costs for cable and broadband, and anticompetitive drug pricing, and it is clear that for Ms. Warren and other presidential hopefuls in the Democratic field, the problem of monopoly power should be a central issue — perhaps the central issue — in the 2020 campaign.Though every Democratic candidate is against President Trump and in favor of working Americans, antitrust is an issue over which the candidates have real disagreement. There are stark differences between, say, Senator Bernie Sanders’s calls to “break them up” (usually a reference to banks), and former Vice President Joe Biden’s “cooperative” approach. Mr. Biden (still undeclared), has taken the position that big corporations should not be “singled out” and that their chief executives can be persuaded to shoulder their responsibilities toward workers and communities. (In the late 1970s, Mr. Biden resisted efforts to strengthen the antitrust laws, though his views may have changed as the law has grown weaker.)Antitrust law is not an instrument of socialism or of unfettered capitalism; it seeks to protect markets from abuse by their participants. Ms. Warren and Senator Amy Klobuchar seem to have the deepest understanding of this. Ms. Klobuchar is not as aggressive on the issue as Ms. Warren, but she has cast herself as an antitrust reformer, introducing thoughtful new laws for merger reform. Senator Cory Booker, for his part, has over the last year staked out a trustbusting position centered on labor markets, with particular emphasis on the worrisome effects of corporate consolidation on workers and their salaries.The largest question mark among the major candidates is Senator Kamala Harris of California, who represents the state where the largest tech monopolies are headquartered. She was tough in her questioning of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, during congressional hearings last year, but she has been silent on the questions raised by tech monopolies.Ms. Harris attracted some attention last month when she declined to register opposition to the proposed merger of the wireless carriers Sprint and T-Mobile — in stark contrast to the rest of the senators running for president. It may be that she is relatively open to approving mergers; it is also possible that her positions are just undeveloped.The variety of antitrust positions in the emerging Democratic field means that it will no longer be enough for a candidate to mutter a few platitudes about big corporations and let the party’s technocrats decide what the nation’s approach to monopoly power ought to be. Such questions of economic policy affect us all and therefore should sit at the core of a majoritarian democratic process.Indeed, they once did: Today’s interest in excessive corporate power recalls a time — 1912, to be exact — when antitrust policy was the central economic issue in the presidential race. Then, as now, the nation faced consolidated industries, widespread inequality and political radicalization. And then, as now, the public deserved the opportunity to decide what to do about that.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By BEN CASSELMAN, 
    
KEITH COLLINS and 
    
KARL RUSSELL

FEB. 15, 2019

Amazon may be pulling the plug on its Queens campus, but New York City’s tech boom is likely to endure.Long before Amazon announced that New York had won a share of its second-headquarters sweepstakes, tech was a rising force in the local economy. Google, which already has thousands of workers in New York, plans to double its work force in the city and build a $1 billion campus just south of the West Village. Facebook, Apple, Uber and other companies are also expanding their presences, as is a rising generation of homegrown companies.Even Amazon itself said Thursday that it planned to keep adding to its New York work force.30% of jobs25201510Wall StreetTech sector19901995200020052010201530% of jobs25201510Wall StreetTech sector199520052015“Every part of the city is feeling the impact of the technology boom,” said William C. Rudin, a developer and the chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York. “The geography of where these companies are, it’s not just Midtown South or Meatpacking. It’s downtown, it’s Midtown East, it’s going to Brooklyn, it’s going to Queens.”In terms of raw economic power, Wall Street still dominates. Its workers earn more than $400,000 a year on average, close to three times as much as tech workers. As a result, the finance sector accounts for a huge share of city and state tax revenue, and wields disproportionate political power.30% of pay252015Wall StreetTech sector19901995200020052010201530% of pay252015Wall StreetTech sector199520052015Mayors dating back to David Dinkins in the early 1990s have sought to make the city less vulnerable to the booms and busts of finance. Those efforts accelerated after the 2008 financial crisis, which wiped out thousands of jobs on Wall Street. Tech’s rapid expansion came at an auspicious time, helping the city rebound much faster than many experts had predicted.“There was a wide consensus that New York City needed to diversify its economy to add balance beyond Wall Street,” said Jonathan Bowles, executive director of the Center for an Urban Future, a New York-focused think tank. “I really think that tech has finally allowed New York to do that.”New York has never been a one-industry town. Even at its height in the early 2000s, Wall Street accounted for little more than 5 percent of the city’s jobs and 20 percent of its total pay. New York is a center of media, advertising and fashion. And for the accounting, consulting and law firms that serve those industries — as well as for the real estate moguls who build their office towers and condominiums.Share of jobsin New York CityShare of payin New York CityHealth care18%Wall Street19%Retail8Health care10Dining7Professionalservices8Real estate andconstruction7Other finance8Professionalservices6Real estate andconstruction7Media andadvertising54Wall StreetMedia andadvertising6Other finance4Government35TechTech3Retail4Colleges223Arts andentertainmentGovernmentDining22CollegesOther322Arts andentertainmentOther25Share of jobsin New York CityShare of payin New York CityHealth care18%Wall Street19%Retail8Health care10Dining7Professionalservices8Real estate andconstruction7Other finance8Professionalservices6Real estate andconstruction7Media andadvertising54Wall StreetMedia andadvertising6Other finance4Government35TechTech3Retail4Colleges223Arts andentertainmentGovernmentDining22CollegesOther322Arts andentertainmentOther25New York’s economic diversity is part of what drew tech companies to New York in the first place. When Google and other West Coast giants set up outposts here in the mid-2000s, they were mostly hiring advertising sales representatives and marketing managers, not hard-core coders.Gradually, however, New York began to become a force for tech talent. Media and finance firms were trying to become more digitally savvy and needed programmers. Universities — encouraged by successive administrations in City Hall — created and expanded programs to give students digital skills.As a share of the population, New York still has far fewer programmers, software developers and similar workers than Silicon Valley and Seattle. In raw numbers, however, the New York area has more such professionals than any other urban area.But as Amazon’s pullback in New York shows, the technology industry also has yet to fully integrate itself into New York’s power structure.$600,000NetflixPolitical donationsin New York StateAmazon500Apple400Facebook300Microsoft200Alphabet(Google)1002009-102011-122013-142015-162017-18ELECTION CYCLESPolitical donations in New York StateAlphabet (Google)AppleAmazonMicrosoftFacebook2017-18NetflixDEM.2015-16REP.2013-142011-122009-10$100,000$200,000$300,000$400,000$500,000$600,000Top political donorsGoldman Sachs1.FINANCIAL$1.6mil.New York Life Insurance2.FINANCIAL1.3National Assn. of Realtors3.REAL ESTATE1.3Operating Engineers Union4.UNION1.2Elliott Management5.FINANCIAL1.2American Federationof Teachers6.UNION1.1Int’l Assn. of Sheet Metal, Air,Rail and Transp. Workers7.UNION1.1Paul, Weiss8.LEGAL1.1Int’l Brotherhoodof Electrical Workers9.UNION1.1American Assn. for Justice10.LEGAL1.1By industry / groupFinancial services1.$323mil.DRLegal2.271Real estate3.226Retirees4.119Health care5.103Top political donorsGoldman Sachs1.$1.6millionFINANCIALNew York Life Insurance2.1.3FINANCIALNational Assn. of Realtors3.1.3REAL ESTATEOperating Engineers Union4.1.2LABOR UNIONElliott Management5.1.2FINANCIALAmerican Federation of Teachers6.1.1LABOR UNIONInt’l Assn.of Sheet Metal, Air, Rail and Transp. Workers7.1.1LABOR UNIONPaul, Weiss8.1.1LEGALInternational Brotherhood of Electrical Workers9.1.1LABOR UNIONAmerican Assn. for Justice10.1.1LEGALBy industry /groupFinancial services$323million1.DEM.REP.Legal2.271Real estate3.226Retirees4.119Health care5.103Only a handful of tech executives serve on the board of the Partnership for New York City, an influential business group. Financial firms, labor unions and other traditional pillars of New York’s economy still dominate the ranks of the city’s top political donors.And while New York has a growing start-up scene, few major tech companies are based here.“New York’s cachet, New York’s strength, is as a global headquarters city,” said Kathryn Wylde, the partnership’s president and chief executive. “And if the C.E.O.s of the industry leaders are not here, we can’t continue to lead the world as a commercial center. We won’t have the magnetism.”Not everyone, of course, is pushing for tech to play a larger role in New York. Amazon’s plans were scuttled by a powerful backlash from unions, neighborhood groups and elected officials in Queens. Some of that opposition was fueled by the multibillion-dollar incentive package the city and state offered to lure Amazon. But critics also worried that the flood of well-heeled tech workers would drive up already sky-high rents.Dan J. Wang, a professor at Columbia Business School, said those concerns were particularly acute because of the size and concentration of Amazon’s planned campus, which he likened to the “company towns” of the early 20th century.“There is the possibility of displacement of existing businesses and of the exacerbation of inequality that already exists in New York,” Mr. Wang said.Other companies, such as Google, have been more subtle, building up presences in neighborhoods without taking over.That might explain why, before the furor over Amazon, tech’s rise had managed to stay largely beneath the radar.“Tech has become a huge and crucial part of the New York City economy,” Mr. Bowles said. “I’m not sure that most New Yorkers know that right now.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere is a way around the notoriously sluggish internet in West Virginia. You just need a car and some time.Kelly Povroznik can tell you, when she happens to get a good signal. She teaches an online college course so hampered by unreliable connections that she has had to drive a half-hour to her brother's place just to enter grades into a database."It added so much additional work for me, and I just don't have the time," said Povroznik, who lives in Weston, West Virginia. "I just kept wanting to beat my head into a wall."Across rural America, a bandwidth gap separates communities like Weston from an increasingly digital world where high-speed internet has become a fundamental component of modern life, putting them at a disadvantage when it comes to economic growth and quality of life advancements.A $4.5 billion federal grant program earmarked to expand wireless internet in rural areas was supposed to address the problem, but it's on hold while the Federal Communications Commission investigates whether carriers submitted incorrect data for the maps used to allocate grants.The broadband maps deemed Weston, a city of about 4,000 people, too well connected to qualify for a grant — even though the problems there are obvious to anyone who's tried to send emails from their phones or gotten lost because Google Maps wouldn't work.FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel concedes that the agency doesn't know for sure where the needs are most acute, calling it "embarrassing" and "shameful.""Our maps simply do not reflect the state of deployment on the ground. That's a problem," Rosenworcel said. "We have a digital divide in this country with millions of Americans who lack broadband where they live. If we want to fix this gap and close this divide, we first need an honest accounting of high-speed service in every community across the country."Lawmakers across the country are concerned that flawed, carrier-submitted maps on cellphone and home internet connectivity are crippling the effectiveness of various grant programs. In February, West Virginia Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin joined 10 other senators in pushing the FCC for more accurate baselines.Disagreements over the data have led to wildly different figures on high-speed internet availability nationwide — and a growing sense that the government just doesn't know.On one end, the FCC says more than 24 million people lack access to broadband at home. On the other, a recent study by Microsoft — which is pushing its own approach to extending broadband to rural areas — found that 162.8 million Americans don't use the internet at high speeds, a problem that may point to cost of access, as well as lack of availability.Part of the discrepancy has to do with how the FCC collects data. The agency considers an entire area covered if a carrier reports that a single building on a census block has fast internet speeds. Experts say this method allows carriers to attract more customers by advertising larger coverage areas. Critics argue that it is a poor way to determine internet speeds and have long called for more granular data.Complaints about the wireless map have poured in to the FCC. The Rural Wireless Association, a trade group, asked the agency to investigate data submitted by Verizon and T-Mobile, suggesting the companies overstated coverage. The companies have denied doing so.The February letter from Manchin and the other senators implored FCC Chairman Ajit Pai to use crowdsourced data and public feedback to create more accurate maps. Some of them have since introduced legislation to force the FCC to widen the scope.Federal lawmakers from New Hampshire sent a separate letter, saying the FCC was forcing cash-strapped local governments there to disprove overstated claims made by carriers in the agency's formal process for challenging the mapping data.All told, only about 20 percent of the 106 carriers, government and tribal entities who could have challenged the FCC's wireless map data actually did so, according to the FCC.The whole process frustrated Manchin, who told the AP in an email: "As long as we continue to rely on carriers just telling us what they cover, we will never have a complete picture that depicts the real-world experiences of West Virginians."The FCC put the grant process for the $4.5 billion program on hold late last year as it launched an investigation into whether one or more major carriers violated rules and submitted incorrect maps. The investigation is ongoing.Christopher Ali, an assistant professor of media studies at the University of Virginia, said the looming mapping question leaves the government flailing blindly at a problem that prevents it from meeting the needs of rural America."We can't fix a problem when we don't know where it exists," he said, "and at the moment we don't know where broadband deserts exist."Povroznik knows they exist in Weston, where she had to come up with work-arounds — including jumping in her car — to cope with spotty connections that disrupted her ability to field questions submitted by students online. She saw some improvement after switching service providers."In this technologically advanced world that we live in, it shouldn't have been as difficult as it was for me to get this situation resolved," she said.___Tali Arbel contributed to this story from New York.AdvertisementThe Snap chief said that he was “impressed” by Europe’s moves, and that there was still time to “course-correct” in the United States.At The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California, Evan Spiegel, Snapchat’s founder, said he was impressed with the privacy regulations enacted in Europe.CreditCreditMike Cohen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katie RobertsonHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — With the continued pressure to regulate Silicon Valley, many wonder when, and how, the United States will act.Sam Altman, president of the start-up incubator Y Combinator, said the onus was on the government.“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” Mr. Altman said last week at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California. “I think we should let our — flawed as they may be — democratically elected and enforced institutions update the rules for the world.”He suggested restrictions around how user-generated content was amplified or distributed, as well as the classifications of hate speech or fake news.The United States has lagged behind its peers and has provided little regulation of the industry that is one of its biggest economic drivers.In January, leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos pushed for more global oversight to limit the power of big tech. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan announced plans to use his country’s leadership of the Group of 20 nations this year to emphasize data governance.America’s own tech chiefs, including the Apple chief executive Tim Cook and executives from Facebook, Google and Microsoft, have lobbied for a comprehensive federal privacy law. Europe has enacted the world’s toughest rules on digital privacy with a sweeping law known as the General Data Protection Regulation.In a recent capitulation to the growing calls for a watchdog, the Federal Trade Commission announced Tuesday that it would create a task force to scrutinize tech giants. The F.T.C. is also said to be considering a multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations.Facebook’s very public reckoning recently has hastened the push for more regulation. The company is accused of, among other things, compromising privacy, harvesting user data, and allowing misinformation, propaganda and hate speech to spread, including during the 2016 presidential election. Also, the Times reported that its leaders covered up problems and targeted critics, enlisting an opposition-research firm to discredit naysayers.Mr. Altman defended Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, saying the company was rapidly improving its practices. “Mark and Sheryl are extremely thoughtful people that have built one of the most important companies in human history. And I think they are listening,” Mr. Altman said.While Facebook and Twitter have taken plenty of hits for their approach to user data and social media, Snapchat, the disappearing-message app made by Snap Inc., has largely escaped the cascading criticism.Evan Spiegel, its founder, said Snapchat’s approach was different from that of its contemporaries, who are trying to police content.“We believe that just a small percentage of the content out there is really great content,” he said. “And so by focusing on that small amount of content and just not allowing really, you know, that longer tail of content creators to distribute content widely on our platform, we ultimately end up with a better content experience for our customers.”Mr. Spiegel linked the current climate for technology companies to the thinking in the Clinton administration around innovation at the beginning of the internet — an attitude of “we want people to mess around with it and to create wild new things, and because of that we don’t really think regulation is the right way to go.”“I think our society is now starting to understand how the internet works in a way that maybe they didn’t 20 years ago,” he said.But, Mr. Spiegel acknowledged, there was plenty of room to “course-correct.” He said he was “really impressed” with Europe’s moves, which he believed would inspire the next wave of privacy regulation.“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Mr. Spiegel said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”He said the concern that regulating big tech would slow growth should be balanced with a consideration of America’s values.“The important thing in all of these debates is to, I think, offer at least the other side of economic progress, which may be the preservation of values that we care a lot about,” he said. “The real world and the internet are one and the same. They have a dramatic impact on one another. And that means that I think we need to be a little more thoughtful and deliberate about the products we’re creating and releasing widely.”AdvertisementNew year, new you, right? You may be headed to the gym, but what about the health of your phone, computer and all your precious data? Here are some tips to get your digital life in order. CreditCreditClaudia ToranSupported byBy David PogueIf we need a checkup on our health, our finances or our cars, we can find doctors, accountants or mechanics. But who checks up on our digital lives?There’s no such thing as 10,000-mile scheduled maintenance for your hard drive or an oil change for your smartphone. You’re on your own.Some people go years without giving their data much thought. As we start a new year, here’s one more item to wedge onto your New Year New You list: a comprehensive checkup on your own data.Following these four steps takes some time and attention, but it’s the only sure way to avoid eventual data disaster.Sooner or later, your hard drive will die.Even its manufacturer admits it. Right there in the manual’s fine print, you can find its M.T.B.F. That’s “mean time between failures,” or “typical time until it croaks.”If that drive contains the only copies of your files and photos, then your countdown to catastrophe has begun.What you need is an automatic, continuous backup system — something that only 6 percent of us have set up.The easiest solution is an online backup service like Backblaze, which is preferred by Wirecutter for its low cost —$50 a year — and lack of size limits. Its software continuously copies your computer’s contents to the cloud. Should disaster strike, you can download your stuff right back again.Better yet, these backups are offsite. Fire, flood and fiendish burglars are no longer your concern. (Well, they’re not great, but at least you won’t lose the sole copy of your data should your computer be damaged, destroyed or go missing.)The downside, of course, is paying that fee forever.For that reason, some people prefer backing up their stuff onto a second, external hard drive. Wirecutter suggests the 4-terabyte Western Digital My Book, which costs about $100.Once it’s connected, you can set up the Mac’s Time Machine feature or Windows’s File History feature to do the backing up, quietly and automatically.The drawbacks of this system: First, your backup isn’t offsite, so a local disaster can take down both the original and the backup. Second, no backing up takes place unless the external drive is plugged into your computer — something to remember if you’re a laptop lugger.There’s a third option, by the way, that’s ideal for a household with several computers. For about $300, you can buy a huge hard drive that connects to your Wi-Fi network and backs up all of your machines wirelessly.In order to scare off novices, the industry calls these drives NAS (network-attached storage) devices. They’re usually not simple to set up, but the result is free, wireless, continuous backup of all the computers in your house.Ask a hundred people what they’d rescue first from a burning house, and you’ll hear a lot of “my photos.”Dropbox, Flickr, Apple’s iCloud and other companies can back up your phone’s photos and videos, wirelessly and automatically. But they’re free only if you have a tiny photo collection. If your picture collection is of real-world size, you’ll have to pay. (It’s $36 a year for 200 gigabytes for iCloud, for example.)But two excellent services, Google Photos and Amazon Photos, can back up your complete photo collection for free, with a footnote apiece:Google’s promise: Unlimited, free backups of all the pictures and short videos on your phones, tablets and computers, with spectacular searching and sharing features once they’re online.The catch: Google’s algorithms compress your photos to take up less space. Now, unless your camera takes photos larger than 20 megapixels, it’s impossible to see the difference between the downgraded copies and the originals. Still, deep down, it may bug you to know that you haven’t uploaded exact copies. (Google Photos can back up the exact originals for a fee: $36 a year for 200 gigabytes, for example, or for free if you buy a Google phone.)Amazon Photos offers the same free service without compressing your photos. It can automatically back up either your computer’s photo stash or your phone’s (iPhone or Android).The catch: It’s part of Amazon Prime, the $119-a-year service that offers free two-day shipping, streaming movies and music, discounts at Whole Foods and other features.If you’re among the 100 million Americans who are already Prime members, great! It’s a good bet that you didn’t even know about this feature.Nobody knows where the term “cruft” came from. Maybe it began life as a reference to Harvard’s Cruft Laboratory, or maybe it’s some mash-up of “crust,” “crud” and “stuff.” In any case, that’s what it is: crust, crud and stuff that builds up over time.Software cruft refers to digital dust bunnies: duplicate files, orphaned “temporary” files, forgotten downloads, files attached to ancient emails, abandoned files from apps you deleted, and so on.Cruft is bad. As it piles up, it can waste a shocking amount of storage space. Eventually, it can slow down your machine.Fortunately, Apple, Microsoft and Google have all recently joined a global anti-cruft crusade. They’ve each added cruft-removal tools to their operating systems. You just have to remember to use them:Windows 10: From the Start menu, open Settings, System and then Storage. If you click “Free up space now,” Windows displays a list of cruft categories that it’s safe to delete, and shows how many gigabytes you’ll reclaim.Here, you can also turn on Storage Sense, which prevents cruft from accumulating in the first place. (Click “Change how we free up space automatically” to adjust the frequency of the deletions.)Mac: Apple’s cruft cruncher can reclaim huge swaths of space. (It’s available on macOS High Sierra and later.) To see it, from the Apple menu, choose About This Mac; click Storage; and then Manage.Here, you’ll see options like “Automatically remove watched iTunes movies and TV shows” and “Download only recent attachments” (in the Mail app). Click Review Files to see a sortable list of everything on your drive, which makes it easy to spot duplicates, or your biggest and oldest files, and delete them.Android: Beginning with the Oreo version of Android, Google has made it fantastically easy to clean out junk files from your phone: Tap Settings, Storage & Memory, and then “Free Up Space.” The resulting list includes downloaded files, photos and videos that you’ve already backed up, and apps you haven’t used in some time. You can delete them by category or individually.iOS: On the iPhone or iPad, tap Settings, General, and then iPhone Storage. You’re now facing iOS’s cruft-removal options: Offload Unused Apps, Review iTunes Videos (enormous TV and movie files), plus an app-by-app listing of space gobblers. Music, Photos, Podcasts and TV usually top the list.To delete the individual songs, videos, photos and other files that are eating up your space, you still have to open the corresponding app. But at least now you know where to begin.More sophisticated cruft-crunching apps are available online — some free, some not. But start with these free, built-in options.Every year, Apple, Microsoft and Google offer free updates to their phone and computer operating systems. Each update generally makes your machine more secure, less buggy and more richly featured.The operative word, of course, is generally. Grizzled computer veterans are full of stories about the time some upgrade fried their PCs, introduced bugs or took away beloved features.Maybe that’s why some people avoid installing the updates, which do, after all, take time to install and learn.But here’s the thing: Software companies don’t create these updates to make your life miserable, or even to make money. (The updates are usually free.) Their primary motivation is making your machine better so you’ll love it enough to buy the same brand the next time.Thanks to better (and more public) testing, it’s been a long time since any of these companies introduced a disastrous operating system release. By all means, study the reviews of the latest update. But if it seems fine, make the jump. You generally wind up with a computer or phone that runs faster, feels newer and does a better job at resisting internet nastiness.Four steps, four nagging projects, four ways to ensure a better future for your life’s data. Having to perform this kind of nerdy checkup may not be your idea of fun, but look at the bright side: It costs a lot less than visiting a doctor, accountant or mechanic.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The Federal Reserve painted a far less rosy economic picture than the White House as it left interest rates unchanged yesterday, and signaled little appetite for any raises in the near future, Jim Tankersley of the NYT writes.Growth appears to be slowing from last year, Jay Powell, the Fed chairman, said. That’s a result of the trade war, economic slowdowns in Europe and China and fading stimulus from the 2017 tax cuts. The central bank now expects 2.1 percent growth this year, down from its 2.3 percent forecast in December — and more than a percentage point less than the 3.2 percent the White House predicts.Rate hikes seem to be off the table. Forecasts show that Fed officials broadly expect not to raise rates at all this year, with a single rate increase in 2020 and none in 2021. In December, they expected two rate increases this year and another in 2020.“The Fed is effectively giving Mr. Trump what he wants from monetary policy, but with a twist,” Mr. Tankersley writes. “The president has publicly pushed Mr. Powell to stop raising rates. But if the Fed is correct and growth falls well below 3 percent this year, without a single rate increase, it will be difficult for Mr. Trump to pin the blame on Mr. Powell.”Wall Street couldn’t be happier. Sectors sensitive to interest rates have posted some of the bigger gains in the current stock market rally, Matt Phillips of the NYT writes, despite forecasts of an economic slowdown.More: Mr. Trump’s tax cut won’t power the growth he predicts, White House officials have conceded. C.E.O.s’ economic confidence, as measured by a Business Roundtable survey, fell for the fourth quarter in a row.European regulators slapped Google with a $1.7 billion fine yesterday for antitrust violations involving the search service it offers other websites — the third major financial penalty imposed on the tech company in Europe since 2017.Google demanded websites using its search bar let it limit the display of any search-driven ads from rivals, according to E.U. officials. “There was no reason for Google to include these restrictive clauses in its contracts, except to keep its rivals out of the market,” Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s top antitrust official, said yesterday.The E.U. forced Google to change its behavior even before the fine. The company stopped its ad requirements when Ms. Vestager began her inquiry in 2016, leading to what Lionel Laurent of Bloomberg Opinion calls “clear changes to its business model,” which have “gone some way to opening it up slightly to more competition.”Europe isn’t done with Google yet. “The commission is continuing its investigations into other conduct by the company, including its handling of local search results,” the WSJ reports, adding that those inquiries may not lead to charges.Expect broader action against Big Tech. Adam Satariano of the NYT reports that the E.U. is expected to adopt new copyright proposals to stop unlicensed content being shared on tech platforms, as well as restrictions on spreading hate speech. And its antitrust lawyers are taking a close look at Amazon, Apple and Facebook as well.But does any of this matter? The E.U. has now fined Google $9.2 billion, but that’s a drop in the bucket compared to the company’s $137 billion in annual revenue, and its shares rose 2 percent yesterday. Some worry that, without breaking up these kinds of companies, it’s hard to get them to really change their behavior.Even as his officials prepare for more negotiations with Beijing, President Trump said yesterday that he expects tariffs on Chinese imports to remain “for a substantial period of time,” Bob Davis and Rebecca Ballhaus of the WSJ report.• “ ‘We have to make sure that if we do the deal with China that China lives by the deal,’ Mr. Trump told reporters as he left Washington for Ohio.”• “The president didn’t explain whether the U.S. is pressing to keep in place tariffs on all the $250 billion of Chinese goods the U.S. has hit with levies, or some portion of them, nor did he indicate for how long.”• U.S. negotiators “are more willing to roll back at least some of the 10 percent tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods, which took effect in September as the U.S. tried to put more pressure on China.”• But they’re more resistant to removing 25 percent levies on $50 billion of Chinese goods, imposed in response to “harm to U.S. companies caused by China’s forced technology transfers.”• “As part of any enforcement plan, the U.S. is also asking China for another important concession — that it agree not to retaliate against U.S. tariffs reimposed for at least some violations of a trade pact.”With just eight days to go until Britain is scheduled to withdraw from the E.U., a standoff appears to have put the possibility of a chaotic no-deal Brexit back on the table.• Ms. May requested from the E.U. a short delay to Britain’s exit, until June 30.• But the E.U. said it would only allow that if lawmakers endorsed her Brexit plan.• That seems unlikely, given that lawmakers have twice rejected it already.“European Union officials appeared to be trying to strengthen Mrs. May’s position and pressure British lawmakers to fall into line behind her plan, which would allow Britain to exit the bloc but maintain its trade ties until at least the end of 2020,” Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.“If they don’t, the alternative may be an outcome many of the lawmakers like even less than the prime minister’s plan: a break from the bloc with no provisions for cushioning its economic impact — a so-called no-deal Brexit — or an even lengthier delay. And that could potentially mean no withdrawal from the bloc at all.”More: The government has stepped up its planning for a no-deal Brexit — including readying the armed forces to deal with public disruption. And sovereign wealth funds have cut investment in Britain ahead of Brexit.The Pentagon still hasn’t awarded its $10 billion cloud computing contract, which is supposed to go to a single provider. Amazon, Microsoft, Google, IBM and Oracle are all technically still in the running. The delay stems from a legal fight between Amazon, the favorite, and Oracle, concerning a former entrepreneur called Deap Ubhi, Karen Weise and Thomas Kaplan of the NYT write.• Mr. Ubhi worked at Amazon from 2014 to 2016, and then joined a Pentagon initiative to help the military hire techies. He also worked on the cloud contract, known as JEDI. He has since returned to Amazon.• “In court documents, Oracle argues that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI when the Pentagon decided to take the approach of hiring a single cloud provider. Oracle cites internal documents in which Mr. Ubhi expressed support for a single cloud,” Ms. Weise and Mr. Kaplan write.• “Amazon has countered that the Pentagon identified 72 people substantially involved in developing the contract and its requirements, and that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI for only seven weeks, in the early stages.”• “The delays from the Oracle lawsuit could help Microsoft. In the months since the request for proposals went out, the company, which has supplied the Pentagon for decades, has improved its capabilities to the point that some experts believe it is an increasingly credible competitor to Amazon.”Lloyd’s of London, the British insurance brokerage, is one of the oldest redoubts of capitalism in the world. But 18 women told Bloomberg Businessweek that they faced sexual assault and harassment there.• A ban on women on the Lloyd’s trading floor was lifted in 1973, but a macho, sexist culture remains. Women are still referred to as “totty” and are rated for their “shaggability,” according to financial executives.• One female executive in her mid-30s told Bloomberg Businessweek that she was assaulted by a male manager after a night drinking with colleagues. She said she was marginalized, especially after filing a complaint — while her manager remained in his job.• Inga Beale, the first female C.E.O. of Lloyd’s, tried to increase diversity at the firm — but was told to “tone it down.”• She tried to ban daytime drinking, a staple of the Lloyd’s culture, in 2017. Some workers “sneered that Beale was trying to run their life as if she was their mother.” The ban reportedly remains widely ignored.• Ms. Beale left before her fifth anniversary in the role last fall, and was replaced by John Neal — whose former employer had docked his pay “for not disclosing he was in a relationship with his personal assistant.”Jeremy King is stepping down as Walmart’s chief technology officer.JPMorgan Chase is phasing out college recruiting trips in favor of video interviews and online behavioral-science games.Deals• Levi Strauss priced its I.P.O. at $17 a share, valuing it at about $6.6 billion. (WSJ)• Indonesia’s Lion Air is reportedly working on an I.P.O. (Reuters)• UBS said its investment banking business has had one of its worst starts to the year in recent history. (FT)• Bill Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management is up 30 percent so far this year, rebounding from years of underperformance. (CNBC)• Starbucks has set up a venture fund with Valor Equity Partners to invest in food start-ups. (CNBC)Politics and policy• To assess Howard Schultz’s leadership, should you look at Starbucks — or his botched sale of the Seattle SuperSonics? (NYT)• President Trump said that Robert Mueller’s report should be made public. Here’s what we know about it so far. (NYT)• Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, sued a Twitter account that pretends to be one of his cows. It now has more followers than he does. (NYT)Boeing• A Senate commerce subcommittee will examine oversight of the Boeing 737 Max in the wake of two crashes. (Axios)• And the F.B.I. has joined the Department of Transportation’s criminal investigation into how the jet was certified. ()• The Defense Department’s inspector general is investigating complaints that the acting defense secretary, Patrick M. Shanahan, promoted his former employer, Boeing, and disparaged rival military contractors. (NYT)Tech• A subscription news service from Apple, expected to be announced Monday, is said to include the WSJ, but not the NYT or WaPo. (NYT)• And David Solomon of Goldman Sachs is reportedly planning to attend Apple’s event, suggesting that his bank will unveil a long-rumored personal-finance collaboration with the tech giant. (Bloomberg)• The Supreme Court took a pass on how class-action lawsuit settlements are distributed in a case involving Google, suggesting it may not be ready to help Congress go after Big Tech. (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Beto O’Rourke joined the Democratic voices calling to rein in Big Tech, saying that the companies should be treated “a little bit more like a utility.” (Business Insider)Best of the rest• New Zealand will ban the sale of military-style semiautomatic weapons, the kind used to kill 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week. (NYT)• Carlos Ghosn’s trial in Japan could start in the fall, sooner than previously expected. (WSJ)• Greece is enjoying an economic revival, thanks to Chinese and Russian investors. (NYT)• Jeff Ubben of ValueAct Capital Management criticized PG&E for again postponing a deadline for board nominations. (Bloomberg)• Business schools are starting to teach softer skills, too. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk JohnsonSEATTLE — Howard Schultz faced a full-court press of troubles as 2006 began. That the Seattle SuperSonics were lousy, having their worst season in 20 years, was only the beginning.Though the Sonics were a storied N.B.A. franchise, with a league championship in 1979, attendance was down at their Seattle arena along with points scored and revenues earned. As the team’s lead owner, Mr. Schultz was facing unrest from fans and partners alike. At the same time, Starbucks, the coffee company he had built into a global giant, was about to hit a bad patch, too, as the first ripples of the Great Recession began to rise into a flood tide.You don’t have to be a basketball fan to know which problem Mr. Schultz was able to fix.The Sonics no longer exist — sold by Mr. Schultz’s group that same pivotal year, and later moved to Oklahoma City and renamed, even the memorabilia packed away. Now, as Mr. Schultz mulls running for president as an independent candidate, his path through that moment says a lot about him — how he handles adversity and uncertainty, and how he grasped or did not the nettle of local politics as the Sonics were flailing, according to more than 20 people who have observed him, befriended him or worked with or against him over the years.His basketball legacy has left many in Seattle outraged to this day, believing Mr. Schultz to be either duplicitous or duped by others. Yet his actions at Starbucks — including a raft of innovations introduced before and during the recession, like health insurance for baristas — became the stuff of adoring Harvard Business School case studies. In Fortune magazine’s ranking, Starbucks is the fifth-most admired company in the world.The common thread — deeply familiar to people in the city Mr. Schultz has called home since the early 1980s, and now echoed in his talk of entering politics — is a kind of idealistic righteousness, combined with obvious conviction about his own abilities and insights. All of which worked like a magic wand in Seattle, except when it didn’t.“There’s no question that he built an amazing business, one that Seattle has benefited from and one that has worldwide reach,” said Greg Nickels, a Democrat who was in his second term as Seattle’s mayor in 2006.“The Sonics episode, I think, was different,” Mr. Nickels added. “I think he got into it and discovered it was not what he thought it was going to be.”Mr. Schultz, 65, a self-made billionaire who grew up in public housing in Brooklyn, said in an interview — conducted, at his request, in a Starbucks — that he had not decided whether to seek the White House and had set no deadline for doing so. A self-described “lifelong Democrat,” Mr. Schultz said that he thought the Democrats were veering too far left, President Trump and the Republicans too far right, and that there was a hunger for a more centrist candidacy like the one he might put up.But he also said, as he had repeatedly in recent speeches around the nation promoting a new memoir, that he would not run if he became convinced his candidacy could aid in Mr. Trump’s re-election.Indeed, his announcement in January that he was “seriously” considering running brought an outcry from many Democrats who feared a split vote. The president chimed in, tweeting that Mr. Schultz, who had never sought public office, “doesn’t have the ‘guts,’” and Warren Buffett called a Schultz candidacy “a mistake.”As a rule in American politics, independents fail to get elected. Since the Civil War, only four minor-party candidates for president have mustered at least 10 percent of the vote: Ross Perot, George Wallace, Robert La Follette and Theodore Roosevelt. Roosevelt, a Republican turned Bull Moose candidate in the 1912 election, couldn’t win despite having been a popular president only a few years earlier. But even getting less than 10 percent can make a difference, as Ralph Nader showed in the 2000 election, which put George W. Bush in the White House through an Electoral College victory even though Al Gore, the outgoing vice president, won the popular vote.For his part, Mr. Schultz believes that an independent president could have a powerful mandate in governing, as a refutation by voters of the bitter and divisive “politics of revenge” that have paralyzed Washington. The example that it could be done would, in turn, draw out a surge of like-minded independent candidates who would reshape Congress, he added.“The current trajectory we’re on demonstrates such evidence of a broken system,” Mr. Schultz said. “I’m looking at the situation and realizing that a large majority of Americans agree with me.”If Mr. Schultz does run, his Seattle experience, combined with a back story of self-made success, would be the narrative he tells and sells. Starbucks started here, and is a different company, Mr. Schultz said, because of the culture that defines the Pacific Northwest. The Sonics failed here and were a Seattle story, too, for which Mr. Schultz has apologized. In his universe, it’s a venti-size place of success and failure.When Mr. Schultz organized an investor group to buy the SuperSonics in 2001, he took the high road of rhetoric. Sounding like a civic patron out only for the city he loved — with the grubby business of moneymaking very much an afterthought — he promised to treat the team as a kind of sacred civic trust.“This ownership group did not get involved to make a profit,” he said at one point in testifying before Washington State Legislature. “We wanted passionate people, about not only sports, but passionate people about our community.”That language and imagery came back to haunt him in the aftermath of the team’s demise.“Schultz became a pariah,” said Gary Washburn, a former Seattle sportswriter who now covers the N.B.A. for The Boston Globe.In February 2006, Mr. Schultz drove to the State Capitol in Olympia, plunked down in front a microphone in a wood-paneled Senate meeting room and repeated what some considered a threat — that he might have to sell the Sonics if he didn’t get more than $200 million in public money for renovations to their arena.He said the Sonics were losing money because they had a terrible, uncompetitive arena lacking in the profitable add-ons that other franchises had, like restaurants and stores. Public money had been lavished on other sports in Seattle in past years, he pointed out — with new play spaces for the Mariners, a baseball team, and the Seahawks, a football team. It was time to bestow some love on the N.B.A., Mr. Schultz said.It did not go well. The Sonics bailout bill did not even come up for a final vote. The political appeal of financing athletic venues had faded after the 2000 dot-com economic bust, and a ballot measure aimed at reducing taxpayer money in professional sports was gaining favor even as Mr. Schultz testified. Initiative 91, as it was called, was approved that fall by a 74 percent majority.Several people who were in the Legislature at the time said that Mr. Schultz, who had never been very involved in politics or lobbying, was treated like the outsider he was, and never appeared to understand the network of informal alliances that stood in his way. Calls were coming to legislative offices from people connected to the city’s other sports teams, saying they didn’t much like the idea of financing a lot of expensive new skybox seats.“The Mariners and Seahawks people were not terribly encouraging — they had several back channels, and sort of front channels of stuff going on,” said James McIntire, a Democratic state representative at the time who later served two terms as state treasurer.Art Thiel, a longtime columnist and sportswriter who covered the Sonics story, said Mr. Schultz simply didn’t understand the state capital. “He thought that he could do as a pro sports owner the same sorts of things that he could do as a successful business owner, which is either to charm the opposition or bully them,” he said. “He got neither done.”Barely five months after hitting a wall at the legislature, Mr. Schultz made good on his warning, announcing that he and his co-owners had sold the team to a group based in Oklahoma, which moved it and renamed it the Thunder.Mr. Schultz now calls that decision one of the major regrets of his life.“My biggest mistake still reverberates,” Mr. Schultz wrote in a recent op-ed piece in The Seattle Times. In his book, he elaborates on what happened: “Almost everyone blamed me, and after some initial denial, I realized they were right to do so. I had squandered the very public trust that I had bought into.”A longtime friend of Mr. Schultz’s, Howard Behar, a former vice president at Starbucks, said that while Mr. Schultz learned from the experience, he had been warned in advance that straying from the world he knew might be dangerous.“When he bought that company, I had a quote in the local newspaper in Seattle. I said: ‘No good will come from this — I think he’s nuts,’” Mr. Behar recalled. “And I was right. No good came from it.”The storied names of the Seattle business world roll off the tongue all over the world: Amazon, Boeing, Eddie Bauer, Microsoft, REI, Starbucks. And just as Microsoft is associated with its co-founders, Bill Gates and Paul Allen, and Amazon with its founder, Jeff Bezos, Mr. Schultz is Mr. Coffee, father of the Frappuccino and coffee sizes in butchered Italian. (The “venti,” for extra-large, which just means “20” in Italian, is a nod to the espresso culture Mr. Schultz fell in love with on a trip to Italy in 1983.)Mr. Schultz, who handed off leadership reins at the company last year, came to Seattle with his wife, Sheri, in 1982, to take a job as marketing director of Starbucks, then just a modest local seller of coffee beans. Only five years later he organized an investor group to buy the company, and then built it — with two stints as chief executive — into a retail giant with nearly 30,000 stores around the world and more than 380,000 employees.But like Seattle itself, with its vast wealth and abundant homelessness, its left-leaning social and environmental policies but no income tax on its considerable allotment of billionaires, the Schultz legacy is mixed.At his first Seattle appearance after announcing his presidential considerations, protesters gathered outside a downtown theater where he was promoting his new memoir. The protesters waved signs about “venti egos” and failed billionaire politicians, while the audience inside cheered at almost every whispered hint of a presidential run.In charitable civic work, the Schultz Family Foundation has been a force in homeless advocacy, working with shelter groups and youth-training centers in Seattle, with a data-driven approach to moving homeless families off the street quickly and into stable housing.“The foundation piloted something and proved that it worked,” said Marty Hartman, the executive director at Mary’s Place, a nonprofit shelter provider that has received more than $4.5 million from Starbucks and the Schultz foundation.But by other measures of civic engagement, like bothering to vote, Mr. Schultz has been less involved. Of 40 elections held since 2003 that he could have participated in as a Seattle resident, he voted only 12 times, according to King County records.“I’m remiss, of course, that I did not vote in those local elections, but you know I travel so much,” Mr. Schultz said in the interview — though he quickly added that he had never missed a chance to vote for president.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk JohnsonSEATTLE — As cars and pedestrians passed by during the evening rush on Thursday, Paula Harper-Christensen, a retired teacher, smiled and waved her sign with an upside-down Starbucks mermaid. “Don’t spill our chance,” the text said under the logo. Susan Glicksberg’s protest placard was more blunt: “Do Not Run!”Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, has returned to his hometown, Seattle, and it has not been a uniformly warm welcome.Mr. Schultz, 65, has come under fierce criticism from many fellow Democrats for being a possible 2020 spoiler after he disclosed his interest in running as an independent candidate for president. He says he will weigh whether to run over the few next months as he undertakes a national book tour describing his vision for fixing America’s ills.[Check out the Democratic field with our new candidate tracker.]Thursday night was his first major appearance in Seattle since his political announcement. Roughly 40 protesters gathered to greet him before his planned event to promote the book and his possible candidacy. Some, like Mary Hanke, were overtly hostile to Mr. Schultz and his record as a businessman.“He’s just like Trump, and the last thing we need is another spoiled, self-absorbed billionaire,” said Ms. Hanke, 69, a retired tech manager.But many others, like Ms. Harper-Christensen, said they were more concerned about the impact of a Schultz independent candidacy in 2020: that a third-party run could split the vote and help re-elect President Trump, who is far more unpopular in Seattle than Mr. Schultz is.“I don’t even like to say his name,” Ms. Harper-Christensen said, referring to the president.Seattle is where Mr. Schultz made his fortune as a businessman. He organized an investor group to buy in 1987 what was at the time a modest coffee-bean retailer called Starbucks, with all of 17 locations, and building it into a frappaccino behemoth with nearly 30,000 stores around the world.Mr. Schultz left the company as a billionaire last year, and yet remains relatively little known to many Seattle residents, compared to other Seattle business leaders who have become household names — notably Jeff Bezos of Amazon and Bill Gates of Microsoft.But the Starbucks brand, with which many Seattle residents have a complex love/hate relationship, is everywhere you look. The historic nonprofit theater that Mr. Schultz hired out for Thursday evening is only a few blocks from the early 1970s-vintage Starbucks store at Pike Place Market — preserved like a museum, or shrine, and drawing tens of thousands of tourists a year. The corporate headquarters, with its blue-and-green mermaid logo rising from the rooftop, is a few miles to the south.In the riots that gripped the city during a gathering of the World Trade Organization in 1999, the shattered glass windows of Starbucks stores became one of the symbols of destruction by anarchists and other groups that roved the city denouncing corporate power.At least one other billionaire with the means to self-finance a bid for the White House, Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, is considering a run for president — in Mr. Bloomberg’s case, as a Democrat.But it is Mr. Schultz’s possible path as a moderate independent outside the two-party system that has drawn the most attention — and criticism by some Democrats who said they feared that a Schultz candidacy could siphon off more Democratic voters than Republicans.Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, a Democrat who is also considering a presidential bid, said this week that he feared a Schultz candidacy could help re-elect President Trump.“Anyone who would run as an independent, and clearly split the Democratic vote, and clearly help Donald Trump — that would be a terrible decision,” Mr. Inslee said.But Mr. Schultz, in an interview with The Times and an appearance on “60 Minutes,” said he believed that the two-party system, locked in a war of revenge and spite, was broken, and that Democratic Party leaders had moved too far to the left on some policy issues.“Both parties are consistently not doing what’s necessary on behalf of the American people,” he said.A few people who came to greet Mr. Schultz at his speech said they agreed with him on at least that point. Jeff Jared, 55, a lawyer and self-described libertarian, carried a sign that said, “Run, Howard, Run.”“People are starving for a third party,” Mr. Jared said.AdvertisementAdvertisement

      By PETER EAVIS and 
    
GUILBERT GATES

JAN. 1, 2019

The S&P 500 in 20183,000Daily closes9/20 PEAK2,930.752,7502,5002,250Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.The S&P 500 in 20183,000Daily closes9/20 PEAK2,930.752,7502,5002,250JFMAMJJASONDThe S&P 500 in 20183,000Daily closes9/20 PEAK2,930.752,7502,5002,250Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.After an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market, investors are looking for clues about what 2019 will bring.The hope on Wall Street is that the underlying economy of the United States is sound, that the recent selling will burn itself out and that stocks will resume their record-setting climb. But the risk is that the plunge, the worst annual decline in a decade, could be the start of something more sinister.[Stocks dropped to start 2019. Read our coverage of the year’s first trading day here.]The forces that pushed the S&P 500 down 6.2 percent in 2018 are still in place. The economy is still doing well, but it does not appear to be as strong as it once was. President Trump is lashing out at the Federal Reserve and the central bank’s interest-rate increases pose a risk to corporate profits and investors’ appetite for stocks. America’s trade war with China continues, and the technology giants that dominate the stock market face heightened scrutiny about their business practices.As investors try to gauge the seriousness of these risks, stocks could lurch in different directions at each new event. A meeting of the Fed later this month, an earnings report in February or a trade-negotiation deadline in March could all prove to be catalysts for a big rise or fall.But Wall Street’s top stock pickers are still expecting gains this year, even if they’re not quite as boisterous in their predictions as they once were.“It could get more frightening before it gets better,” said James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the research firm Leuthold Group. “But I think we survive for another run.”Last year was a reminder of how unpredictable stock markets can be. In January, with corporate tax cuts in place, the outlook for the market in the United States was great. And stocks did hit a record high in September, with Apple and Amazon becoming the first publicly traded American companies to be valued at more than $1 trillion. But 2018 was also turbulent, with markets falling sharply in February and again at the end of the year.The S&P 500 narrowly avoided one grim milestone: a 20 percent drop from its high, a decline that would signal the start of a bear market. The index ended 2018 down 14.5 percent from its high point, and a bear market could yet be in store should stocks experience another decline similar to what they went through in early December. If that happens, the pessimism that has hovered over the stock market could leach into the rest of the economy, as companies grow wary of taking risks, expanding or adding more workers.Here are the factors that will help determine whether that happens this year.Interest rates in 20183.5%10-year Treasury note yield3.02.52.01.5Federal funds target rate (upper limit)1.00.50Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.Interest rates in 20183.5%10-year treasury note yield3.02.52.01.5Federal funds target rate (upper limit)1.00.50JFMAMJJASONDInterest rates in 20183.5%10-year Treasury note yield3.02.52.01.5Federal funds target rate (upper limit)1.00.50Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.Rising interest rates, and expectations about where those rates are headed, may have weighed on stock prices more than anything else in 2018.With the United States’s economy humming, the Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, pushing up borrowing costs across the economy. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which is the basis for debt like home mortgages and corporate loans, climbed to its highest level since 2011 before falling back. When borrowing costs rise too much, they can be restrictive. Companies and consumers pull back, and the economy suffers.In the worst case, a recession could occur.Stocks tumbled as investors became increasingly concerned that the Fed, under a new chairman, Jerome H. Powell, would raise interest rates too far and send a chill through the American economy.Only more data on the state of the economy will ease the concerns about growth. If investors see the economy growing steadily, jitters over the Fed’s intentions and the recession fears that gripped stocks could fade.“We’re going to see if the market was wildly hysterical about a recession,” said Ed Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research.If not, then investors could hang on the Fed’s every move, and monetary policy meeting, in 2019.Heading into 2018, in the days after Mr. Trump’s tax cuts were enacted, investors were mostly buoyant about his presidency and tolerant of his unpredictable declarations on Twitter.That bullishness persisted even after it became clear that Mr. Trump was serious about imposing restrictions on trading partners as a way of gaining concessions from them. But as the trade war continued, unresolved tensions with China started to become a concern, and Mr. Trump’s proclamations started to make investors jumpy.When Mr. Trump referred to himself on Twitter as “Tariff Man,” the message helped spur a drop of more than 3 percent in the S&P 500.....I am a Tariff Man. When people or countries come in to raid the great wealth of our Nation, I want them to pay for the privilege of doing so. It will always be the best way to max out our economic power. We are right now taking in $billions in Tariffs. MAKE AMERICA RICH AGAINIt wasn’t just the tweets about China that began to bother investors. Mr. Trump also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed, which he blamed for the stock market turmoil.This is a change for the market. When the investment bank RBC Capital Markets surveyed big investors in December about what kept them up at night, Mr. Trump topped the list (interest rates and the trade war ranked second and third).The only problem our economy has is the Fed. They don’t have a feel for the Market, they don’t understand necessary Trade Wars or Strong Dollars or even Democrat Shutdowns over Borders. The Fed is like a powerful golfer who can’t score because he has no touch - he can’t putt!When it comes to Mr. Trump, investors have a lot to consider. They will have to weigh whether a partial government shutdown will dampen the economy; what a House of Representatives controlled by Democrats or staff turnover at the White House could mean; and what might happen if the United States and China can’t reach a trade deal by a March 2 deadline.Commodity prices in 2018PRICE OF OILPRICE OF COPPER$100a barrel$4.00per poundBrent crude futures contractsGeneric futures contracts$3.28803.00$66.8760$2.682.00$54.15401.002000JFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASONDCommodity prices in 2018PRICE OF OIL$100a barrel80$66.8760Brent crudefutures contracts$54.1540JFMAMJJASONDPRICE OF COPPER3.50per pound$$3.283.00$2.682.50Genericfutures contracts2.00JFMAMJJASONDCommodity prices in 2018PRICE OF OILPRICE OF COPPER$100a barrel$4.00per poundBrent crude futures contractsGeneric futures contracts$3.28803.00$66.8760$2.682.00$54.15401.002000JFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASONDThe trade war’s most evident impact so far has been in large overseas economies, which appear to be taking a turn for the worse.China, Japan and the European Union showed signs of slowing down late in 2018, and reliable indicators of global growth like the price of oil and copper are flashing warnings.Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could be deeper. China’s methods for pulling its economy out of a rut probably are not as effective as they once were. And the battle between Italy’s populist government and the European Union over the country’s spending plans may heat up again.The European economy could also be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union without an agreement that keeps trade flowing freely. That could be avoided if Parliament approves a withdrawal deal Prime Minister Theresa May has struck with the union. But that is no sure thing. Mrs. May, lacking the necessary support, was forced to delay a vote originally set for last month until mid-January. She has been trying, so far unsuccessfully, to extract changes from European officials in hopes of improving the chances of passage when that vote comes.If Parliament ultimately rejects Mrs. May’s proposal, investors will probably remain nervous. And support may grow among lawmakers for a second referendum on whether Britain should leave the European Union. If that happens, stocks — including those in the United States — may rise on the hope that Britons vote to stay.Technology stocks versus the S&P 500 in 2018PERCENT CHANGE FROM JAN. 1 TO PEAK (SEPT. 20) +100%Netflix+75Amazon+50Microsoft+25AppleGoogleS&P 5000Facebook–25PERCENT CHANGE FROM SEPT. 20 TO DEC. 31+25%0S&P 500–25–50Technology stocks versus the S&P 500 in 2018PERCENT CHANGE FROM JAN. 1 TO PEAK (SEPT. 20) +100%Netflix+75Amazon+50Microsoft+25AppleGoogleS&P 5000Facebook–25PERCENT CHANGE FROM SEPT. 20 TO DEC. 31+25%0S&P 500–25–50Technology stocks versus theS&P 500 in 2018PERCENT CHANGE FROMJAN. 1 TO PEAK (SEPT. 20) +100%Netflix+75Amazon+50Microsoft+25AppleGoogleS&P 5000Facebook–25PERCENT CHANGE FROM SEPT. 20 TO DEC. 31+25%0S&P 500–25–50The market’s fate also depends on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies. Last year, companies like Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Netflix helped push key stock benchmarks like the S&P 500 and Nasdaq composite to records, and then dragged those indexes down when the companies went into free-fall.The tech giants’ shares plunged in part because they were deemed to be too expensive. Put another way, investors went from being optimistic that the companies’ future earnings would be terrific, to worried that they wouldn’t.Some of the large tech firms also face substantial problems in their own operations that could take time to resolve. Apple, for example, counts on China as both a market where it sells iPhones and a manufacturing hub.Facebook is spending large sums of money to try to protect its network from interference. Any sign that its systems have been abused with the goal of swinging an election could subject it to regulation.Facebook is not alone in facing this concern. Some analysts say that large tech companies are now in a position to similar to what big banks confronted after the financial crisis of 2008.“The tech companies are a heck of a lot better run than the financial companies were in 2007,” said Savita Subramanian, equity strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, “but their incentives may not be aligned with the best interests of employees and shareholders.”The United States economy has to grow at a strong enough pace to deliver the corporate earnings that investors are hoping for. But if the economy grows quickly, investors may return to worrying about higher interest rates.If the Fed can tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war winds down and the economies of Europe and China stabilize, a recovery in stock prices could hold.“I am not sure the upside for the market is higher than where we’ve already been,” Mr. Paulsen, the strategist, said, “but 2019 could still be a good year.”An earlier version of this article misstated the deadline for a trade agreement between the United States and China. It is March 2, not March 1.AdvertisementAdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Lisa TobinShould Big Tech partner with the Pentagon? We examine a cautionary tale.Wednesday, March 6th, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Across Silicon Valley, tech companies are pursuing contracts with the U.S. military. Kevin Roose on a cautionary tale of where that can lead. It’s Wednesday, March 6.kevin rooseSo I’m a tech columnist. I spend a lot of time talking with and looking at the big tech companies and where they’re going. And one of the most interesting threads that’s come up in the past year or so is this question of how Silicon Valley should engage with the government, and with the military, specifically. And I think we’re at a point right now where the government is saying, we want the things that you’re building. We want you to be part of our modernization efforts.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd within some of these companies there’s a growing divide between the management of the companies and what they want for their business, and some of the people actually building this technology — the engineers who are working on these advanced systems that are in hot demand by the military and other government agencies. And we just saw this play out in a pretty meaningful way at Microsoft.michael barbaroWhat happened there, exactly? So last year Microsoft signed a contract with the Department of Defense to use a technology called HoloLens in the Army.archived recordingGood morning, everyone. A few years ago, we started asking ourselves, could we make things so simple that technology would just disappear?kevin rooseAnd HoloLens was originally developed — it’s kind of like a headset for augmented reality.archived recordingCould we place your digital content right into your world, right into your life, with more reality than ever before?kevin rooseI saw a demo of this a couple years ago, and they were touting it as the next generation of gaming.michael barbaroMm-hmm.archived recordingWelcome to a new era of Windows. Welcome to Windows Holographic.kevin roosePeople were wearing HoloLens, and you would be swinging your imaginary sword at imaginary monsters. But it all looked like it was happening right there in your living room.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd last year, Microsoft signed a contract to develop HoloLens technology for use on the battlefield — to give soldiers the ability to wear these headsets and get information about their surroundings, and to increase the lethality of the soldiers on the battlefield.michael barbaroSo this technology will specifically be deployed within the military so that American soldiers are better at killing the enemy?kevin rooseThat’s the way it’s described in the contract, yes.michael barbaroAnd so, I’m guessing that this was something that Microsoft engineers objected to?archived recordingAnd then there’s Microsoft. They’re receiving backlash from their own employees over new groundbreaking technology.kevin rooseWell, a few of them did. But they did it pretty vocally.archived recordingYeah, so more than 150 Microsoft employees signed a letter demanding that the company cancel a $480 million contract to build a HoloLens for the Pentagon saying they, quote —kevin roose“Dear Satya Nadella and Brad Smith: We are a global coalition of Microsoft workers, and we refuse to create technology for warfare and oppression.” And it goes on. And basically, they argue that this crossed the line into weapons development — that this was basically taking something that they had built, and turned it into something that was designed to help soldiers on the battlefield kill other soldiers.michael barbaroNot what they decided to do.kevin rooseRight. Not their intent, not what they were told they were going to be working on, and not something they were comfortable with.michael barbaroAnd Kevin, thinking about this, it’s hard to imagine that the U.S. military would not use U.S. technology, American-made technology like this, in warfare. That seems inevitable, doesn’t it?kevin rooseWell, right. I mean as long as there has been a U.S. tech industry, there’s been a partnership with the U.S. government and with the military. I mean, the original internet came out of a Defense Department project.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd since then, lots of advances in technology have been spurred by this collaboration between the Pentagon and Silicon Valley. And a lot of these companies already provide technology to the military. I mean, a lot of military computers run Windows’s operating system. But this was a bridge too far for these employees. They say, we’re O.K. basically providing general-use technology, the same stuff that you and I could go and buy. But the specific development of our technology for use in this specific case crosses a line for us, and we don’t want to be a part of it.michael barbaroSo Kevin, what’s interesting to you about this story?kevin rooseWell, I’m interested in the ethical debate around the use of artificial intelligence and other technologies. But I’m also a business reporter. I think this is a decision that is not just being made along ethical lines. These companies are also thinking about their businesses and the amount of money and the profitability of developing these systems for the military. So I wanted to look at it along those lines, as well. Let’s just bracket the ethical discussion for a second and say, does this make financial sense?michael barbaroWell, not just bracket it, right? Isn’t a company often going to make decisions about moral dilemmas based on the implications to their finances?kevin rooseExactly. These are not philanthropies or think tanks. These are for-profit corporations that generally operate on a cost-benefit calculation. And so just on that plane, I wanted to see, does this make sense for them? [MUSIC] And so, I did a little bit of digging, and I went back about 50 years in history, and I found an example of a company that sold something to the military and later came to regret it.michael barbaroWhich was what?kevin rooseIt’s the case of Dow Chemical. In 1965, Dow Chemical is this small, little-known chemicals company based in Michigan. They make lots of different things — household chemicals, agricultural chemicals.archived recordingNow, at your favorite grocery store, the most amazing food wrap ever developed!kevin rooseThey were probably best known for making Saran Wrap.michael barbaroHeard of it.archived recording (speaker 1)Have you tried Saran Wrap? It really is amazing! And look, Saran Wrap clings like magic!archived recording (speaker 2)Saran Wrap is a product of the Dow Chemical Company.archived recording (speaker 3)[JET PLANES AND EXPLOSIONS] Vietnam. United States helicopter gunships backed up ground forces in a strong assault on a Viet Cong position —kevin rooseMeanwhile, the Vietnam War is happening. And in 1965, Dow Chemical wins a contract with the Department of Defense to produce a new chemical called napalm B. And napalm, which is a highly flammable gel that binds and sticks to things and then burns them — had been in use. But napalm B was the new formulation, and the military was very excited in using this in Vietnam.archived recordingTroops followed up the advantage gained by the air support to knock out the V.C.kevin rooseThey thought it had a lot of promise on the battlefield. It was hard to contain and hard to put out. It was a very effective form of weaponry — a very horrible form of weaponry. And it produced very, very bad burns on people. They would basically be burned alive. And so, there’s not much noise about this for the first little while. And then Americans start seeing images from the Vietnam War. And for a lot of people, this is their first time seeing the effects of napalm.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseMost famously, there’s this photograph — you’ve probably seen it. It won the Pulitzer Prize. It is a photograph of a 9-year-old girl who’s been badly burned by a napalm weapon.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)So far we may have killed a million of them, mostly children.kevin rooseAnd it sort of shocks the American public, and it galvanizes the anti-war movement.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)What do they think as we test out our latest weapons on them, just as the Germans tested out new medicine and new tortures in the concentration camps of Europe?archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING] No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm!kevin rooseAnd they decide to go after the use of napalm by U.S. armed forces. And the way that they do that is by going after Dow Chemical.archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING]archived recording (speaker 1)This is Monday afternoon, November 20, on the San Jose State college campus. What you’re watching is the result of a demonstration that began about an hour ago.kevin rooseThey staged demonstrations outside the company’s headquarters, and they go to dozens of colleges where Dow was recruiting students to come work for them.michael barbaroHm.archived recordingThe professors against the war and the Students for a Democratic Society had marched in front of the administration building to protest the recruitment on this campus by Dow Chemical Company of employees.kevin rooseAnd they protest the recruiting sessions. They have signs like “Dow deforms children,” “Dow deals death.”archived recordingThey’re not allowing anyone in. Like, the only people they’re allowing in are those people that are connected with Dow. [PROTESTERS SHOUTING]kevin rooseMy favorite story from this period is that the Dow recruiters — the people that would go to campus to talk to the students — they would get locked up in classrooms. They would get, like, held hostage by the activists. And at one point, one of the recruiters got so used to this that he started bringing a sandwich in his briefcase, so that if the inevitable happened and he got locked in a room with a bunch of angry protesters —michael barbaroHe would survive the day.kevin rooseHe would at least have lunch.michael barbaroSo this sounds like a complete corporate nightmare — that your company is so associated with war and with death, and not with the household product that you make — Saran Wrap.kevin rooseRight. And Dow was particularly offended by this because napalm was a very small part of its business. I mean, it accounted, I think, for a half of 1 percent of its annual sales. And yet it had sort of come to take over its corporate identity. So there was some internal discussion, there were some debates within the company and at the board level about what to do, whether to stop manufacturing napalm. And there were lots of reasons for that. I mean, there were customer boycotts. They did take a financial hit. And they had to do a lot to counter their corporate reputation as a warmonger. But what they really worried about was recruiting. They worried that on these visits to college campuses they weren’t going to get the best people. They weren’t going to get the scientists and the engineers who would help them in the years ahead. And as a result, they would have long-term costs, not just financial, but also in terms of what they were missing out on.michael barbaroThe future employee with moral objections to napalm, who doesn’t come work at Dow Chemical and make the next blockbuster product.kevin rooseRight. But ultimately, they decided to stand their ground. They said, we have a duty to produce napalm for the U.S. government. It’s our patriotic obligation, and we can withstand the controversy.michael barbaroDow Chemical feels like such an extreme case, and it feels quite different from what’s going on with these tech companies today.kevin rooseYeah, absolutely. These are not totally comparable. I mean, the Vietnam War, at this point, was extremely unpopular. You had these horrific images coming back. There’s no good use for napalm, right? There’s no pro-social, healthy use for napalm. It’s a weapon. Whereas a lot of these technologies — A.I., facial recognition, image recognition, augmented reality — these can all be used for very productive and healthy things. It’s only when you put them into a certain context that they can be used for harm.michael barbaroAnd that would seem to be the case for most tech companies, right? They are developing products not explicitly for the military. They just happen to be used that way.kevin rooseExactly.archived recordingArtificial intelligence, drones, warfare and Google — it’s a mixture that caused an uproar inside the tech giant, where the early motto was “Don’t be evil.”kevin rooseThere was a big controversy at Google last year, about this military contract known as Project Maven.archived recordingGoogle is developing artificial intelligence to analyze drone video data.kevin rooseAnd this was a Defense Department program that basically used A.I. and image-recognition technology to interpret video images.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseSo the same kind of A.I. that Google would use in Google Photos, or in its self-driving car unit to recognize images out on the road —archived recordingIt would apparently be used as part of a drone program.kevin roose— could be used to, for example, improve the targeting of drone strikes to make drone strikes more accurate, to be able to recognize certain people or certain buildings and be able to direct a drone at that target specifically.michael barbaroAgain, not what Google engineers probably ever thought the technology would be used for.kevin rooseExactly, I mean, they didn’t sign up for that. And some of them didn’t even know that this was happening.archived recordingThousands of Google workers now protesting Google’s involvement in a Pentagon drone program.kevin rooseSo there was a big uproar. There was lots of heated internal meetings.archived recordingAt least 10, maybe 12 employees did resign.kevin rooseSome resignations —michael barbaroWow. People quit the company over it.kevin rooseYeah, people quit the company over it.archived recordingMeantime, thousands of Google employees have signed a letter protesting the company’s participation in an artificial intelligence project by the Pentagon.kevin rooseThere was a petition that was signed by thousands of Google employees.archived recordingQuote, “We believe that Google should not be in the business of war. Therefore we asked that Project Maven be canceled.”kevin rooseCalling for the company to not only not enter into this contract, but to stop making tools of weaponry altogether. And ultimately —archived recordingTech giant Google will end a project with the Pentagon.kevin rooseGoogle bowed to the pressure. They pulled the contract. They said they wouldn’t renew it. They put out a statement saying, we’ll still work with the military on other projects, but we’re not going to manufacture weapons and weapons-related technology. And that seemed to quiet the unrest. [MUSIC]michael barbaroI feel like people would be surprised that a huge tech company like Google would back down like that.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, it does speak to the difference between a conventional contractor like Dow Chemical and these tech companies. I think there are three main differences there. The first is that these companies are beloved. They have loyal followings and they don’t want to do anything to upset that. The second is that these companies are very idealistic. And in Silicon Valley, this is a big deal. Companies market themselves not just as profitable enterprises, but as humanitarian projects. And anything that compromises that hurts them.michael barbaroRight. World-changers.kevin rooseTotally. And I think the biggest difference is that employees at these companies — especially the engineers who work on very specialized projects like A.I. development — have a ton of leverage, because there are not very many of them, they make a ton of money, and they’re really hard to recruit. If a couple of chemical engineers walk out of Dow Chemical in protest, they can probably find some more where that came from. But if hundreds or thousands of A.I. engineers are upset about a project that Google is working on, that’s a real threat to their business. It doesn’t take many people staging a protest, or threatening to walk out to really get the attention of senior leadership.michael barbaroSo these three differences that you just laid out explain why Dow didn’t back down, despite images of dying children affected by their products, whereas Google did back down, long, long before anything like that happened to it.kevin rooseRight. And I want to be clear: What happened at Google was the exception, not the rule. This is not happening in any vast quantity across the tech industry. At Microsoft, for example, they came right out and said, we appreciate the objections of this small group of employees. They can move elsewhere in the company if they want, but we’re committed to seeing this contract through. And they’ve defended themselves by saying, we have a patriotic duty to provide technology to the military. We think that we can advocate for the ethical use of technologies like AI if we’re at the table in these discussions. And they say that basically, these technologies could be good. These could save lives on the battlefield. The army has said it wants to use HoloLens not just for combat training, but for things like measuring vital signs, and monitoring soldiers for concussions, and having some sort of hearing protection on people’s ears. So those are the kinds of arguments they’re making to justify staying in these contracts.michael barbaroSo the argument here being that engineers who came to these companies to do good, having their technology used by the military does not necessarily mean not doing good.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, that’s one of the arguments that they’re making, is that, basically, if the U.S. military doesn’t have the best technology available on the market, our adversaries will, and we will be endangered as a result.michael barbaroI guess the question is, do the engineers buy that argument?kevin rooseWell, some of them probably do. But as we’ve seen, a number of them don’t. [MUSIC]michael barbaroSo Kevin, we started by talking about this intersection of the moral and the financial as these tech companies navigate this question of, should they work with the military? What’s your understanding in Silicon Valley about how these companies are thinking about that?kevin rooseSo I think a lot of these companies have really shifted their view on this in the last couple of years. A lot of Silicon Valley companies used to just think of themselves as toolmakers, right? We build this stuff, and we put it out into the world, and people use it. And our responsibility, basically, stops at the moment of sale.archived recording (mark zuckerberg)To me, entrepreneurship is about creating change, not just creating companies.kevin rooseAnd now, I think we’re seeing that these companies are being held responsible by the public and by their own employees, not just for the tools they’re building, but for how they’re being used in the world. And this is not just about the military.archived recordingAt this hour some 300 programmers are threatening to leave Microsoft unless the tech giant drops its contract with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE.kevin rooseI mean, also, companies are being scrutinized for working with ICE or working with law enforcement.archived recordingAn Amazon worker is pushing the company to stop selling facial recognition technology to law enforcement.kevin rooseSocial media companies are being held responsible for bad things that happen on their platforms.archived recordingFacebook defending Alex Jones this morning, saying the platform will continue to allow the video blogger to run video on its site, even as it claims to crack down on fake news.kevin rooseThis is really happening across technology. And as technology embeds itself into every part of our lives, we’re seeing that these companies are having to make new kinds of decisions. It’s not just a dollars-and-cents profit-and-loss calculation anymore. They also have to consider what might happen out in the world once they release these technologies.michael barbaroWhich is another way of saying that the morality element of this is now playing a much bigger role than it has in the past, and perhaps is not beating out financial, but rivaling it?kevin rooseIt’s certainly part of the discussion now in a way it hasn’t been before. It’s not just about how much money we’ll make, or how many resources it will take. It’s about what we’re building, and why we’re building it, and who we’re selling it to. [MUSIC]michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you for having me.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherAcross Silicon Valley, tech companies are pursuing contracts with the Defense Department. But seemingly lucrative deals can come with hidden costs. To explain, we look at a company that sold something to the military and later came to regret it.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Kevin Roose, who writes about technology for The New York Times.Background reading:Read Kevin Roose’s column on what Silicon Valley can learn from one of the past century’s most notorious military contracts: when Dow Chemical made napalm during the Vietnam War. Many are grappling with the question of how to build, deploy and regulate artificial intelligence technologies in an ethical way — and whether it’s even possible.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Kevin Roose contributed reporting.“Silicon Valley’s Military Dilemma” was produced by Rachel Quester and Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Lisa Tobin.“The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — The expanding power of technology companies has become a talking point in the United States presidential race, a subject of debate in India and a top focus of regulators in the European Union. Now, Britain is adding its voice to the worldwide backlash.Big Tech is reducing consumer choice and harming innovation, according to a British government report released on Wednesday. The government, as a result, needs to overhaul its antitrust policies.The 150-page report, ordered by the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, the country’s top treasury official, said the country needed stricter rules on acquisitions in the technology industry and stronger oversight to make sure that new rivals cannot be squashed.“There isn’t sufficient competition today,” said Jason Furman, a professor of economic policy at Harvard who led the group behind the report and a former top economic adviser to President Barack Obama. Addressing that, he said, “is one of the most important economic policy questions” in the world today.Last week, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts and a presidential candidate, called for breaking up the largest tech companies. Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat of Minnesota who is also making a White House bid, has proposed taxes and antitrust laws against the industry.Officials in the European Union have been particularly aggressive in pushing back against the industry, issuing billions of dollars in penalties against Amazon, Apple and Google for antitrust violations and tax avoidance, while passing strict privacy regulations. The European Union is weighing copyright regulations and rules to stop the spread of disinformation.Individual countries in Europe have taken stands as well. France has proposed taxes on technology companies, while Germany passed a law against online hate speech.In India, the government last year imposed rules against the e-commerce operations of companies including Amazon and Walmart. The country is also weighing regulations to block certain internet content posted on social media deemed libelous, an invasion of privacy, hateful or deceptive.The tech industry has thrived over the past two decades thanks in part to little government regulation. The companies say that it has allowed them to develop products that benefit consumers, like free internet services and online shopping.The panel said that this hands-off approach had benefits for consumers, but that it had also created consequences related to privacy and lack of competition.Critics have argued that existing competition laws cannot keep up with the fast pace and rapid growth of the tech industry. By the time authorities issue a verdict, the underlying technology has changed and companies have moved on with even greater power.Last year, the European Commission issued a record fine against Google of 4.34 billion euros, or about $4.89 billion, for antitrust violations related to its Android mobile operating system. But the case took more than three years to conclude, and is still being appealed.Over the last 10 years, the report said, the five largest tech companies have made more than 400 acquisitions globally. None have been blocked, and only a small number have had conditions attached for approval.“Competition policy will need to be updated to address the novel challenges posed by the digital economy,” the report said.Mr. Furman’s panel called for the creation of a “digital markets unit” that would require companies to allow consumers to move data from one service to another. Large companies would also have to make data available to competitors, a bid to lower barriers to entry by forcing them to share information. The report also calls for a code of conduct to be drafted for the biggest tech companies that would be enforceable with fines.The recommendations are part of a broader review of tech industry policies as the country prepares to exit the European Union. British officials are also considering taxes on tech companies and making internet companies liable for the spread of misinformation, hate speech and terrorist content on their platforms.Any regulations would still need to be agreed to by Parliament.In the United States, Ms. Warren’s regulatory plan would force tech giants to reverse some acquisitions, including Facebook’s purchase of WhatsApp and Instagram, Amazon’s deal for Whole Foods and Google’s purchase of the mapping company Waze. Companies also would be prevented from transferring or sharing people’s data with third parties.Mr. Furman, the Harvard economist and former Obama adviser, said breaking up the companies was not yet necessary. But he voiced some regret that the White House did not do more to regulate the tech industry while he was there.“I wish we had gotten to some of the competition issues sooner,” he said.A common argument against competition regulation is that new companies will emerge as technologies change, just as Google and Facebook overtook older technology.The British report said that rationale no longer applied because the barriers of entry for young companies were much higher. The largest companies, including Google, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft, are leaders in the most promising emerging technologies, like artificial intelligence.“The companies most able to take advantage of it may well be the existing large companies because of the importance of data for the successful use of these tools,” the report said.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTech TipBefore you get out the hardware, use software like free floor-plan apps and augmented-reality tools to sketch out the ideas for your remodeling projects.By J. D. BiersdorferGot a bunch of home-improvement dreams but you’re not quite sure where to start? Let a free or inexpensive three-dimensional floor plan program be your guide. While making a 3-D model is no substitute for professionally crafted plans and blueprints, it will give you a way to experiment with ideas before you hire a contractor or an architect. And some programs are simple to use: If you can use a tape measure and drag objects on a computer screen, you have the necessary skills. Here’s how to get started.You’ll need all the measurements of the room or project area in order to recreate it. A locking 25-foot retractable tape measure is the time-tested tool, but you can also get rough estimates with augmented-reality tools like Google’s free Measure app for Android or Apple’s similarly named iOS 12 Measure app. Some apps, like Magicplan for Android and iOS (prices start at $3), can do both the measurements and put together a floor plan.Measure everything: the length, width and depth of the walls, doors and windows in the space, and don’t forget fixtures like radiators. You should also grab the dimensions of the furniture, appliances and other items in the renovation zone. If you plan to buy furniture, appliances or shelving, collect the measurements from the product’s specifications online (or on the box).You can find plenty of home-design apps in a range of prices in your app store. And some retailer apps, like those from Build.com and Wayfair, use augmented reality to show virtual objects like furniture in a room. But if this is all new to you — or if you’re adding on a room — the free edition of Sweet Home 3D for Windows, Mac and Linux computers may be your best bet, because you get an intuitive interface and many design options. The application has many appealing features for beginners, including an illustrated user guide and video tutorials. (A full version of Sweet Home 3D with more design options is also available for less than $15 in the Microsoft and Mac App stores.)Sweet Home 3D has a free online edition that works in a web browser. SketchUp Free is another browser-based drawing program and has paid versions. Planner 5D has free versions for Android and iOS that give you plenty of room to play before you need to start making any in-app purchases. The program also works on Windows 10, macOS and the web.Next, make a scale model within the program’s work space, which typically looks like a grid of squares representing feet or meters. Refer to your list of measurements and use the program’s tools and grid to create walls, rooms, doors and the other central elements.If drawing a room from scratch intimidates you at first, check your program to see if it includes templates or sample files. With a little clicking and dragging, you can usually modify these examples to match the outline and measurements of your own room.After you map out the room’s exterior dimensions, start filling in the interior with furniture and appliances. Most design apps have an object browser window you can use to drag 3-D models of common items (like tables, sofas and bar carts) into your floor plan where you want them to go. More stylish furnishings may require an in-app purchase.Depending on your software, you may also be able to select different window and door designs, as well as stylized wallpaper, flooring, curtains and other furnishings to make your model look as close to your renovation dream as possible.Some apps provide a split-screen view between the 2-D floor plan and a 3-D model that you can spin and rotate. Other programs display the project in the flat 2-D view and you add the extra dimension with a tap or click. Seeing your room in 3-D can give you a better idea of how everything works within the space, and can highlight issues you may not have seen on the flat floor plan, like fire sprinklers that block cabinet doors from fully opening.When you’re satisfied with your creation, move on to the next phase. Print it out to use it as a guide as you work, or send a copy to your contractor so you’re both on the same page when it comes time to start the job.J.D. Biersdorfer has been answering technology questions — in print, on the web, in audio and in video — since 1998. She also writes the Sunday Book Review’s “Applied Reading” column on ebooks and literary apps, among other things.  @jdbiersdorfer AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The special counsel, Robert Mueller, did not find evidence that President Trump coordinated with Russia to influence the 2016 election, Attorney General William Barr said yesterday. But the White House still faces legal challenges.Mr. Trump claimed victory from the report, which concluded Mr. Mueller’s two-year investigation into the Russia issue. Especially comforting to the president: Mr. Mueller did not recommend additional indictments of his inner circle.The president was not found to have obstructed justice, Mr. Barr added, saying that the special counsel did not find enough evidence. But the report did not exonerate Mr. Trump on this accusation, as Mr. Mueller did not provide a verdict either way.Mr. Trump derided the inquiry as an “illegal takedown that failed,” and demanded that those responsible for it face additional scrutiny. That triumphalism ran counter to advice from aides.But the White House isn’t in the clear yet. Congressional Democrats pledged to continue pursuing investigations into Trump and his allies. And prosecutors in New York City are still investigating an array of issues that touch on Mr. Trump’s business and political dealings.The markets may get a small boost from the end of the investigation, according to analysts who spoke to CNBC.China’s top economic policymakers have promised more market-based competition and international trade, in the latest sign that the country is eager to end its trade war with the U.S., Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.The promises being made were significant. Officials at the China Development Forum, the country’s premier annual economic policy conference, spoke of increasing imports, a desire for more foreign investment and a willingness to allow foreign financial firms to own larger stakes in their Chinese competitors.They may sound familiar, however. “Chinese officials have said for years that they were ready to allow foreign competitors to enter their market on a more equal footing,” Mr. Bradsher writes. “The promises made over the weekend in many cases repeated pledges that have been made before.”But China now has other reasons to embrace openness. “In addition to a trade war that is hitting the country’s exporters, China’s economy has also been hurt by private sector business leaders who have become increasingly cautious in recent months about making new investments,” Mr. Bradsher adds.The promises will most likely feature in trade talks. American and Chinese officials are scheduled to hold trade talks in Beijing in the coming days, and another round of talks in Washington the following week.The airplane maker is taking more steps to convince the authorities and customers that fixes for its 737 Max 8 jets — two of which have crashed in recent months — are near.It tested a software update  for the Max 8 aircraft with pilots from five airlines over the weekend, the NYT reports. Using flight simulators, the pilots were able to safely land planes suffering from problems believed to have brought down Lion Air Flight 610 last year.And the company outlined other software fixes that are meant to eliminate flaws in an automated piloting program at the heart of the crashes. Boeing also said that it would now make two previously optional safety features on the planes free of charge.But Boeing is facing heat from Congress over the safety-certification process that cleared the Max 8 for flight. Lawmakers are concerned about how much responsibility the company held for certifying the safety of its own planes.More Boeing news: How the company rushed to roll out the 737 Max to catch up with Airbus. Why the crashes highlight the challenges of adding modern software to older technology. And why JPMorgan Chase economists worry about broader fallout from Boeing’s problems.The yield curve is essentially the difference between interest rates on short-term government bonds and long-term government bonds. Since 1960, every time that it has inverted — when long-term rates were lower than short-term rates — a recession has followed.It happened on Friday.More on that from Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “The yield on the 10-year Treasury note tumbled to 2.44 percent Friday, its lowest level since January 2018. That was just below the 2.45 percent yield on three-month Treasury bills.”• “Research from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has cited the yield difference between three-month Treasury bills and 10-year Treasury notes — which inverted Friday — as the most reliable predictor of recession risk.”• “On Friday, the S&P 500 fell 1.9 percent, as stock market investors grew concerned about the outlook for economic growth. It was the second-worst drop for the market this year.”Don’t hyperventilate. Some parts of the yield curve have not yet inverted, and experts say the inversion doesn’t necessarily predict economic collapse. “A model is just a model,” Campbell Harvey, a Duke University finance professor, told the NYT. “It’s not an oracle. It helps us forecast the future, but it might at any point fail.”With smartphone sales stagnating, Apple is making a push to make money from services. And today, we find out what that looks like, as the company makes a series of announcements about its moves into the world of media. Here’s what to expect:• Video streaming. According to the WSJ, Apple has “used a $1 billion budget to buy dozens of original TV shows in hopes it can land a breakout hit,” and plans to announce tie-ups to offer $9.99 subscriptions for channels like HBO and Showtime. Original content would reportedly “be delivered in a new TV app that staff have been calling a Netflix killer,” and also require a subscription.• News. The company’s new news-subscription service is expected to cost $9.99 a month and provide “access to more than 200 magazines — including Bon Appétit, People and Glamour — as well as newspapers,” according to the WSJ.• And maybe games? Bloomberg suggests that the company might even announce “a premium games subscription for its App Store.” This wouldn’t be the cloud gaming of the kind announced by Google last week, but bundles of games for the iPhone and iPad.You can watch the event here, starting at 1 p.m. Eastern.The British prime minister is struggling for control and respect as she tries again to gain Parliament’s support for her Brexit deal this week.Her week starts with a tense cabinet meeting, with her Conservative Party in “uproar after ministers discussed replacing her as leader just weeks before the Brexit deadline,” according to the FT.Lawmakers will then try to undermine her control of Brexit, when they vote later today on a plan “to take control of the legislative agenda for a single day,” Bloomberg explains. “This would allow lawmakers to express support for different options ranging from a second referendum to a customs union with the E.U. and even canceling Brexit.”She’s still hawking her Brexit deal. But meetings over the weekend with high-profile Euroskeptic lawmakers, including Boris Johnson and Jacob Rees-Mogg, failed to gain their backing. That means she still lacks the support needed to win a third vote on her proposal.All this comes against the backdrop of public demand for a second referendum on Brexit. On Saturday, an estimated 1 million people marched through London to demand a new vote on leaving the E.U.As the S.E.C. and Elon Musk continue to fight in court over his tweeting, the Tesla C.E.O. fired back on Friday. His latest argument: the agency is incorrectly interpreting a settlement agreement between the two.Mr. Musk’s insists his tweet review process is O.K. In his view, he is supposed to only run tweets containing material information about Tesla by an in-house lawyer — and he is free to determine what qualifies. An earlier draft of the settlement, offered by the S.E.C., would have required him to run all public statements by a lawyer. He rejected that proposal.He also says the tweet that drew the ire of the S.E.C. wasn’t controversial. His comment about Tesla production forecasts, he argues, contained information that had previously been made public, and was made after stock markets closed for the day. But the S.E.C. says that’s an after-the-fact rationalization.It’s up to a judge to decide whether Mr. Musk violated the settlement and should be held in contempt. The S.E.C. has declined to ask for a hearing on the matter, The Verge reports, since it believes it has already made its case.Silicon Valley’s business model pretty much relies on pervasive screens being a good thing. But Big Tech’s most successful executives increasingly spend lots of money to shelter themselves from the digital reality they helped create, Nellie Bowles of the NYT reports, potentially creating a new class divide.• At first, tech products like Facebook and Gmail were democratic: They were the same no matter who you were, and they were free. Companies extolled the value of widespread laptop use in schools, arguing that they were preparing kids for the future.• But now schools that are short of cash, like those in Kansas, focus on screens, not human interaction. And low-income elderly patients rely on digital avatars to keep them company.• Meanwhile, Ms. Bowles writes, “As wealthy kids are growing up with less screen time, poor kids are growing up with more. How comfortable someone is with human engagement could become a new class marker.”• “The wealthy can afford to opt out of having their data and their attention sold as a product. The poor and middle class don’t have the same kind of resources to make that happen.”The Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren and Sherrod Brown called on banking regulators to oust Tim Sloan as Wells Fargo’s C.E.O.President Trump plans to nominate Stephen Moore, an economic adviser and frequent critic of the Fed, as a governor of the central bank. (Here’s why he might be a poor choice.)Citigroup fired eight traders in Hong Kong for reportedly misleading clients.Deals• Uber is reportedly set to buy Careem, a Middle Eastern competitor, for about $3.1 billion this week. (Bloomberg)• Pinterest’s I.P.O. filing showed that it’s a rare Silicon Valley unicorn — one that isn’t bleeding money. (NYT)• ICYMI: Everything you need to know about the Lyft I.P.O. (DealBook)• Naspers, the South African internet giant, plans to spin off its stake in Tencent and other international holdings into a new publicly held company. (Bloomberg)• The telecom equipment maker Avaya is reportedly considering a $5 billion takeover offer from a private equity firm. (Reuters)Politics and policy• How “Medicare for all” would disrupt the entire health care industry. (NYT)• House Democrats like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez plan to pressure banks into taking stands on issues like gun violence and climate change. (Politico)• Energy executives celebrated the appointment of one of their allies to the No. 2 spot at the Interior Department, according to a recording of a 2017 industry meeting. (Politico)Tech• Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, says that in the wake of the Christchurch shooting it’s time to consider Big Tech’s legal responsibilities. (Microsoft)• Volvo’s C.E.O. says that rolling out autonomous vehicles prematurely could “kill a technology that might be the best lifesaver in the history of the car.” Also: Waymo’s autonomous taxi fleet has reportedly suffered plenty of close calls and frequent rider complaints. (FT, Information)• Mike Lynch, the former C.E.O. of the British software company Autonomy, faces new criminal charges of wire fraud, securities fraud and conspiracy. (Bloomberg)• The European Commission is expected to pursue a plan to manage the risk of using Huawei telecom hardware, defying calls from the U.S. to simply not use it. (FT)• Banks are using A.I. to spot rogue traders before they even act. (FT)Best of the rest• Silicon Valley venture capitalists are taking victory laps as unicorns like Lyft and Uber go public. (NYT)• Tyson has recalled 69,000 pounds of chicken strips after metal fragments were found in them. (NYT)• Sweden is expected to force its banks to continue offering customers cash transactions. (FT)• The O.E.C.D. recently tried to quantify the global counterfeiting industry. Its conclusion: The business represented as much as 3.3 percent of global trade in 2016. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Raymond ZhongSHENZHEN, China — These are not carefree days for Huawei, the Chinese tech behemoth. The United States is trying to persuade the world not to use the company’s equipment in cellular networks. The Justice Department has charged the firm and its chief financial officer with bank fraud and theft of trade secrets.Yet Huawei’s business is soaring. And the company’s leaders sound confident that Washington can do little to stop it from flying higher.Huawei earned more than $105 billion in revenue last year, up nearly a fifth from 2017, Guo Ping, the company’s deputy chairman, said on Friday. Profit grew by a quarter, to more than $8 billion. Though Huawei has not sold shares to the public, it publishes audited yearly financial results as a gesture toward openness.Speaking at the company’s headquarters in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, Mr. Guo said that “we will do everything we can to shake off outside distractions, improve management and make progress toward our strategic goals.”Mr. Guo said that the United States’ actions had created “a certain amount of trouble” for Huawei, but that customers would judge the company based on their own interests, not Washington’s.“We Chinese would say that they don’t mind their table manners,” Mr. Guo said of the United States government. “I feel very sorry for these so-called gentlemen.”In telecommunications equipment, smartphones and more, Huawei has become a globe-straddling colossus despite years of accusations by the United States that the company acts and spies on behalf of the Chinese government.Huawei today is in the same league, in terms of yearly revenue, as Microsoft and Google. By that metric, it is almost as big as three of China’s most influential internet companies — Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu — combined.For much of the past year, though, Huawei has battled a torrent of legal and regulatory troubles.In December, the company’s finance chief, Meng Wanzhou, was arrested in Canada after the United States accused her of defrauding Huawei’s banks and causing them to violate sanctions against Iran. Ms. Meng — who is the daughter of Huawei’s founder and chief executive, Ren Zhengfei — remains in Canada while legal authorities decide whether she will be extradited.Huawei, which was also charged, this month pleaded not guilty to the accusations, which also include obstructing a criminal investigation into the company. It has said it would never spy on customers, even if asked to do so by Beijing, and has said it is unaware of any wrongdoing by Ms. Meng.In the first two months of 2019, even as the company faced heightened scrutiny around the world, Huawei’s revenue grew by more than 30 percent from a year earlier, Mr. Guo said on Friday.“Because of external pressure, we are more closely united internally, so we can face together these pressures imposed on us by the outside world,” Mr. Guo said. “This will make us even stronger.”Mr. Guo said that Huawei spent nearly $15 billion last year, or 14 percent of its sales, on research and development. But it is unclear whether Huawei will be able to capitalize fully on its investments in equipment using the next generation of wireless technology, or 5G. Washington has pressed allied governments to bar cellular companies from using the company’s 5G gear over espionage concerns.A review led by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency, released on Thursday, found “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, although it stopped short of calling for a ban on the company’s products.The chief executive of Vodafone, the British carrier, has warned that a full Huawei ban would delay the construction of 5G networks. Few industry observers believe, however, that carriers that are blocked from using Huawei’s 5G gear would be put at a major technological disadvantage as they rolled out new data services.“We’re talking about an industry with standards, meaning that by and large, everybody’s equipment operates in a similar way,” said Richard Kramer, a founder of the technology research firm Arete. “I think it’s an overstatement to say that the rest of the world won’t be able to build 5G networks without Huawei.”The other big unknown on Huawei’s horizon is whether Washington will take further measures to undermine the company.The Justice Department has already filed criminal charges against Huawei and Ms. Meng. But other federal agencies could do more, such as cut the company off from American parts and technology. The American chip companies Broadcom and Xilinx, both of which count Huawei as a customer, have recently told investors that they are monitoring the situation closely.The immense power that Washington wields over Chinese tech companies was on vivid display last year when the Commerce Department nearly drove a smaller telecom equipment maker, ZTE, out of business by denying it access to American components. Commerce officials determined that the company had illegally exported American-sourced technology to Iran.The Trump administration ultimately softened that penalty. But months later, the Commerce Department imposed a sales ban on Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit, a chip maker, saying that the company was likely to act against national security interests. An American company, Micron Technology, has accused Jinhua of stealing chip designs.Kevin J. Wolf, a partner at the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, was an assistant secretary of commerce during the Obama administration. He oversaw the first phase of the Commerce Department’s case against ZTE.It is extremely difficult, he said, to predict what more might be done to Huawei. The law gives officials wide berth to decide how to protect national security.“The standard is so broad,” Mr. Wolf said. “It’s up to whoever’s in charge to determine what a national security concern is.”Follow Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @zhonggg.Advertisement

      By SAHIL CHINOY

APRIL 16, 2019


        On the east side of Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan, three cameras on the roof of a restaurant film the lunch crowds, tourists and commuters — everything that goes on each day. The feeds are streamed publicly online.
        
        
      
        We were able to turn those cameras into a facial recognition-powered tracking system for less than $100 — using a service available to anyone with an internet connection and a credit card. The process was completely legal.
        
          We pixelated the faces shown here, which were captured over one day.

        How easy would it be to figure out who was in the park? We built a database using public photos of people who work in the area and matched this college professor on his way to lunch. All it took was a few days’ work.
        
        
      
        The cameras are just three among thousands across New York City. And if you’re an adult in America, there’s more than a 50 percent chance that you’re already in a law enforcement facial recognition database, according to researchers at Georgetown.
        
        
          Security cameras in Lower Manhattan in 2005
1 camera recorded by the N.Y.C.L.U.
Most people pass through some type of public space in their daily routine — sidewalks, roads, train stations. Thousands walk through Bryant Park every day. But we generally think that a detailed log of our location, and a list of the people we’re with, is private. Facial recognition, applied to the web of cameras that already exists in most cities, is a threat to that privacy.To demonstrate how easy it is to track people without their knowledge, we collected public images of people who worked near Bryant Park (available on their employers’ websites, for the most part) and ran one day of footage through Amazon’s commercial facial recognition service. Our system detected 2,750 faces from a nine-hour period (not necessarily unique people, since a person could be captured in multiple frames). It returned several possible identifications, including one frame matched to a head shot of Richard Madonna, a professor at the SUNY College of Optometry, with an 89 percent similarity score. The total cost: about $60.“My first reaction was, ‘Oh my god, that is unbelievable,’” Dr. Madonna said, after we reached him and explained the experiment. “I was shocked at how readily it seems that it picked me up, because, really — it’s the side of my head.”In our exercise, we built a database using only photos from public websites, and we obtained Dr. Madonna’s consent before publishing this story. We’ve deleted the images and data that we collected and are no longer monitoring the Bryant Park cameras.Over decades, businesses and individuals have installed millions of cameras like the ones we used, inadvertently setting up the infrastructure for mass surveillance. In the past, a human would have to watch the video feed to identify people, making it impossible to comprehensively record everyone’s movements. But the accuracy and speed of modern facial recognition technology means that building a dragnet surveillance system is now feasible.The law has not caught up. In the United States, the use of facial recognition is almost wholly unregulated.“The technology has advanced faster than even I thought that it would,” said Jennifer Lynch, surveillance litigation director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. She said that because of how quickly the technology has advanced, she would now support a wholesale ban on government use of facial recognition.The cameras in Bryant Park were installed more than a decade ago so that people could see whether the lawn was open for sunbathing, for example, or check how busy the ice skating rink was in the winter. They are not intended to be a security device, according to the corporation that runs the park.But our experiment shows that a person equipped with just a few cameras and facial recognition technology can learn people’s daily habits: when they arrive at the office each day, who they get coffee with, whether they left work early. When we identified Dr. Madonna, he was on his way to lunch with a job candidate — an example of how the midday outings of even law-abiding citizens can sometimes be sensitive information.The police and governments may also have access to a vast network of cameras. Combine that with a comprehensive database of faces — like a driver’s license database — and it’s possible to track citizens throughout an entire region in real time. There is no evidence that this is happening on a wide scale in the United States. But that’s not because the technology doesn’t exist. Last year, companies claimed they could compare live feeds to a database of billions of faces.Authorities have used facial recognition to track down criminal suspects and find missing children. But civil liberties advocates warn about the chilling effect on free speech if the government could monitor everyone’s whereabouts — or, say, identify individuals at a protest. This is not a purely hypothetical concern: During 2016 protests after Freddie Gray died in the custody of Baltimore police, law enforcement used facial recognition on social media images to identify protesters with outstanding warrants."Once the government has the ability to track us and identify us wherever we go, it is impossible to speak and participate in society anonymously," Ms. Lynch said.New York City is nowhere near China, where the government has installed approximately one surveillance camera for every seven citizens. But according to the A.C.L.U., police here have access to more than 9,000 camera feeds in Lower Manhattan alone.The M.T.A. has tried using facial recognition on feeds from license-plate cameras at the city’s entry points to identify drivers through their windshields, although those efforts have been unsuccessful so far, according to The Wall Street Journal. And the Department of Transportation already has hundreds of cameras across New York City used to monitor traffic, feeds that are also streamed publicly online.The traffic cameras are most likely too low-resolution for effective facial recognition. But the city’s LinkNYC kiosks, which are scattered through the streets and intended to provide free wireless internet, each have two security cameras. Law enforcement agencies need a subpoena or court order to gain access to the footage, and using facial recognition is against the policy of the company that owns the kiosks. However, the existence of more than 3,000 additional cameras has raised concerns about their potential to bolster the city’s surveillance capabilities.Cameras onNew York City StreetsLinkNYC kioskTraffic cameraManhattanqueensBrooklynCameras onNew York City StreetsLinkNYC kioskManhattanTraffic cameraBrooklynDetails are sparse, but there is evidence that those capabilities are formidable. The Police Department claims its Domain Awareness System, developed jointly with Microsoft (which also offers facial recognition software), “utilizes the largest network of cameras, license plate readers, and radiological sensors in the world.”It’s unclear whether the Domain Awareness System currently uses facial recognition, though the Police Department experimented with it in 2012, according to Clare Garvie, an associate at the Center on Privacy and Technology at Georgetown Law School. The police have been reluctant to divulge details, and the center has sued the department for more information.“We compare facial images picked up by cameras at crime scenes to mugshots in law enforcement records,” said Sgt. Jessica McRorie, a spokeswoman for the department, in an emailed statement. “We do not engage in mass or random collection of facial records from N.Y.P.D. camera systems, the internet, or social media.”Amazon is one of several companies that sell facial recognition services to the public. The company has highlighted positive applications of the service we used, Rekognition, such as its ability to help find lost children. It insists that it requires customers comply with the law and respect others’ rights, but has been criticized for pushing its technology to law enforcement agencies.Rekognition is already actively used by the sheriff’s office in Washington County, Ore., including to investigate minor crimes like shoplifting. The Orlando, Fla., Police Department is also using the technology in a pilot program.Amazon notes that its service makes predictions, not decisions, and that the confidence level the service provides should be incorporated in a human review process. The company recommends using a threshold of at least 99 percent for applications of its facial recognition service that involve identification or public safety, though critics of the technology say that the scoring is opaque and that the company has no way of enforcing that threshold. None of the matches we obtained from the Bryant Park footage, correct or incorrect, met the threshold.Matt Wood, the general manager of artificial intelligence for Amazon Web Services, noted that it is possible that Rekognition, like other types of information available to law enforcement officials, could be used inappropriately. “The law enforcement agency will have to be accountable to these individuals and to the law if they violate people’s civil liberties,” he said. He added that the company has not received any reports of misuse by law enforcement.In January, however, the A.C.L.U. sent a letter to Amazon asking it to stop selling facial recognition technology to police and government agencies, saying that the company’s attention to civil liberties has lagged behind that of Google and Microsoft.“Rekognition marketing materials read like a user manual for authoritarian surveillance,” said Nicole Ozer, the technology and civil liberties director for the A.C.L.U. of California, in a statement last year.In the United States, there are no federal laws that restrict the use of facial recognition. Most states don’t have regulations, nor does New York City, though a city councilman proposed legislation last year that would require businesses to disclose their use of the technology. That would apply to our exercise, but would not extend to law enforcement’s use of facial recognition.“It’s kind of like a wild, wild west out there,” Ms. Lynch, the E.F.F. lawyer, said.The lack of regulation has opened the door to a wide range of applications. In 2007, an Arizona sheriff’s office enrolled all of Honduras’s driver’s licenses and mugshots into its database, and a Florida sheriff’s office runs 8,000 searches each month without requiring its officers to have reasonable suspicion of a crime, according to the Georgetown report.The Georgetown center along with the E.F.F. and others have proposed regulations, including requiring that authorities have reasonable suspicion before conducting a search; prohibiting, except in life-or-death situations, live facial recognition searches using driver’s license databases; and forbidding tracking individuals based on political beliefs, race or religion.Amazon itself has called for a legal framework that incorporates human review and transparency. But some say that the technology is so dangerous that no regulation is sufficient.“The future of human flourishing depends upon facial recognition technology being banned,” wrote Woodrow Hartzog, a professor of law and computer science at Northeastern, and Evan Selinger, a professor of philosophy at the Rochester Institute of Technology, last year. “Otherwise, people won’t know what it’s like to be in public without being automatically identified, profiled, and potentially exploited.”Facial recognition is categorically different from other forms of surveillance, Mr. Hartzog said, and uniquely dangerous. Faces are hard to hide and can be observed from far away, unlike a fingerprint. Name and face databases of law-abiding citizens, like driver’s license records, already exist. And for the most part, facial recognition surveillance can be set up using cameras already on the streets.It might be too late for a moratorium or ban, however. Facial recognition is already being used by police departments around the country, Ms. Garvie said.“We can’t lock law enforcement agencies into 20th-century technology just because 21st-century technology raises very serious risks,” she said.Dr. Madonna, the person we identified, said he understood that tension. He was initially astonished when we reached out to him, but he said that as a doctor, he often talks to students about the ratio of risk to benefit. He saw the tremendous benefits that facial recognition could offer, he said.But the technology is open to abuse, he added, when individuals or governments can use facial recognition to track any group, or just about any ordinary citizen — even someone walking through Bryant Park.Designed by Jessia Ma. Video animations by Drew Jordan.Sahil Chinoy is a graphics editor for The New York Times Opinion Section.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Correction: April 16, 2019 An earlier version of this article misstated Woodrow Hartzog’s affiliation. He is a professor at Northeastern University, not Northwestern.Correction: April 16, 2019 An earlier version of this article erroneously included a business among companies that sell facial recognition services. Google does not do so.The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.See all Privacy articlesFrom the NewsroomApril 13, 2019See all Privacy articlesAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The C.E.O.s of seven huge American banks testified on Capitol Hill yesterday — the first time since 2009 that top Wall Street C.E.O.s have appeared en masse before Congress. Here’s how they responded to a grilling by House Democrats on a variety of issues.Banking rules: The C.E.O.s argued that the financial system is much safer today than it was a decade ago, despite recent easing of regulations.Russia: Brian Moynihan of Bank of America, James Gorman of Morgan Stanley and Mike Corbat of Citigroup all said they had reviewed their account holders for potential Russian money-laundering. Mr. Corbat was the only one to say he “could not comment on ongoing investigations.”Guns: “JPMorgan has refused to adopt a policy to ensure responsible lending to the gun industry, even though you claim that client selection is important,” said Representative Carolyn Maloney. “Will you commit to adopting a formal policy that ensures responsible lending in your bank’s business with the gun industry?” Jamie Dimon responded that JPMorgan has “a very small relationship with gun manufacturers,” and added that he would be willing to consider adopting a formal policy. Mr. Gorman said Morgan Stanley had clamped down on doing business with gunmakers; Citi and Bank of America have already done so.The economy: Asked about the biggest economic threat facing the U.S., Mr. Corbat answered, “Our ability to talk ourselves into the next recession.”Diversity: Not one of the C.E.O.s thought that his successor would be a woman or a person of color.More: Lloyd Blankfein, the former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. who testified at the 2009 hearing, tweeted yesterday, “Boy, I really miss my old job!!!” To curb disinformation and hateful content, Andrew suggests in his latest column that tech giants take a page from the banking industry and make sure they know who they’re doing business with.• “The concept is ‘know your customer’ — or KYC, as it’s called on Wall Street — and it’s straightforward: Given concerns about privacy, security and fraud when it comes to money, no bank is allowed to take on a new customer without verifying its existence and vetting its background.”• “What if social media companies had to verify their users the same way banks do? You’d probably feel more confident that you were interacting with real people and were not just a target for malicious bots.”• “When I broached the idea of applying a ‘know your customer’ principle to their business, several senior executives at social media companies recoiled at the prospect, questioning how they would pull off such a huge feat, especially in emerging markets where many people lack credit cards, and even fixed street addresses.”• But there’s precedent: NextDoor, the social network focused on local communities, requires users to submit a credit card or phone number, which it checks against databases.• A “know your customer” rule could become more important as social networks like Facebook become fully encrypted. Fake users could easily spread misinformation and be harder to stop in an encrypted world — unless there was a way to verify their identities at the outset.More: Facebook says it is expanding its efforts to clamp down on disinformation through steps like expanding fact-checking operations and reducing the reach of groups that share misleading content. It’s also taking steps to minimize unwelcome reminders of dead friends on its network.The ride-hailing giant has told some investors that its forthcoming market debut could value it at up to $100 billion. It’s the first sign from the company about how big its I.P.O. will be.Uber told holders of some convertible bonds that its stock could be valued at $48 to $55 a share. That translates into a valuation of about $90 billion to $100 billion, including the $10 billion it plans to raise during the I.P.O.That’s below the $120 billion that bankers had predicted last year, prompting some commentators to wonder whether Lyft’s struggles in the public markets had forced Uber to lower its aims. (Shares in the smaller ride-hailing company are now down nearly 17 percent from their I.P.O. price.)The big question for Uber, along with many of the other tech companies going public this year: How long will investors tolerate losses? Earlier this year, Uber disclosed that it lost $842 million in the last three months of 2018 alone. And the company acknowledges it will lose money for a long time, though it plans to show a path to profits.We expect to learn more about Uber’s I.P.O. later today, when the company plans to publish a prospectus for the stock sale. Its shares are expected to begin trading next month.More: Uber, Pinterest and other unicorns are reportedly worried about their existing shareholders’ lock-up agreements, which prevent them from selling for several weeks after an I.P.O.Less than 48 hours before Britain’s scheduled departure, the E.U. last night extended the exit deadline until Oct. 31, Stephen Castle and Steven Erlanger of the NYT write.It took nine hours for European leaders to agree on the delay. The six-month extension is more than the three months that the British prime minister, Theresa May, had asked for — and that President Emmanuel Macron of France had pushed for — but shorter than the year that some E.U. leaders favored.The delay gives Britain time to get its ducks in a row. The European Council president, Donald Tusk, urged the U.K., “Please do not waste this time.” Mrs. May acknowledged that there would be “huge frustration” back home over the extension, but said she would again seek to persuade lawmakers to back her deal. The extension could be cut short if she manages to do so.But “the path ahead still resembles a minefield, dotted with explosive issues like a possible attempt to topple Mrs. May, a general election or a second Brexit referendum — or some combination of the three,” Mr. Castle and Mr. Erlanger write. “Most immediately, Mrs. May is likely to face calls to step down, and potential successors are already trying to raise money and advertise their credentials.”Don’t rule out another extension. At a news conference last night, Mr. Tusk told journalists, “Our wish and hope is the U.K. will be ready with a final solution at the end of October — but I’m too old to exclude another scenario.”American Media Inc., which owns the tabloid, said yesterday that the Enquirer is on the block. And a deal could be reached within days, Ed Lee, Andrew and Ben Protess of the NYT report.American Media is led by David Pecker, who helped silence a woman who said she had an affair with President Trump by buying her story for $150,000 before his 2016 election and never publishing it. Prosecutors who investigated the arrangement gave the company a nonprosecution deal, which requires it to avoid committing crimes for the next several years.But American Media is in a tough spot over The Enquirer’s feud with Jeff Bezos, who says he was threatened by the publication. Mr. Bezos is expected to meet with federal prosecutors this week to discuss his claims. If prosecutors move forward with a case, it could jeopardize American Media’s non-prosecution agreement.The controversy is spurring the sale. American Media’s principal owner is behind the push to sell the tabloid, the NYT reports. That company, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, “no longer saw an upside in being associated with The Enquirer.” An unnamed source told the WaPo that American Media’s investors were uncomfortable owning a tabloid involved in supporting Mr. Trump.But the publisher says its business focus has shifted away from tabloids to glossy magazines like Us Weekly and Men’s Journal. “Because of this focus, we feel the future opportunities with the tabloids can be best exploited by a different ownership,” the company said in a statement.The House approved legislation yesterday that seeks to revive so-called net neutrality regulations that the Trump administration overturned in 2017, Cecilia Kang of the NYT writes.• “The legislation would prohibit blocking and throttling web traffic and would categorize broadband as a service open to heavy regulation,” Ms. Kang writes. The 232-to-190 vote effectively supports giving users equal access to content.• “Supporters say the regulation would prevent companies from blocking or slowing the delivery of content like videos.”• “Opponents say it would strap broadband providers like Verizon and Comcast with heavy-handed restrictions, and could lead to price controls.”But the legislation faces long odds in the Republican-led Senate. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said this week that the legislation would be “dead on arrival.” And earlier this week, the Office of Management and Budget “advised the White House to veto the law if it reached the president’s desk,” Ms. Kang writes.And then there were two. The Pentagon said yesterday that only two candidates remained in its contest to win a $10 billion contract: Amazon and Microsoft.Those were the only companies to meet the “minimum requirements” for the contract, according to the Defense Department. Only one provider will win the huge contract, which will build the main global data repository for U.S. military services and is known as JEDI.The contest had been mired in controversy since Oracle, one of the now-rejected bidders, alleged that an Amazon employee who had worked on JEDI during a stint at the Defense Department had undue influence on the process. A Pentagon spokeswoman said yesterday that the employee had “no adverse impact on the integrity of the acquisition process.”The P.R. firm Gladstone Place Partners has hired Christina Stenson, most recently of the Brunswick Group, as a partner in San Francisco.Deals• U.S. authorities reportedly pressured Pamplona Capital Management, an investment firm backed in part by a Russian billionaire, into selling a stake in the cybersecurity company Cofense over national security concerns. (WSJ)• Barclays’ former investment banking chief, Tim Throsby, reportedly clashed with the bank’s C.E.O., Jes Staley, over profit targets. (FT)• Deutsche Bank reportedly wants more time to consider whether to merge with Commerzbank. (Reuters)• Saudi Aramco’s newly issued bonds have already slipped below their offering price. (FT)• The I.T. services company PagerDuty raised $218 million in its I.P.O., after increasing its price range. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Gregory Craig, a former White House counsel in the Obama administration, is expected to be charged over his work for Ukraine in a case linked to Robert Mueller’s investigation. (NYT)• The Treasury Department won’t meet a deadline for a House committee’s request for President Trump’s tax returns. (NYT)• Mr. Trump defended his potential nomination of Herman Cain to the Fed. Janet Yellen, the central bank’s former chief, warned that any new members should check their politics at the door. (WSJ)• Senator Bernie Sanders renewed his push for Medicare-for-all legislation. Related: How much would it cost? (NYT, Upshot)• Attorney General William Barr told Congress that the Justice Department will look into potential “spying” into the 2016 Trump campaign. (NYT)Boeing• The F.A.A. didn’t review modifications that Boeing made to anti-stall software for the 737 Max 8 jet after an initial safety review. (NYT)• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, defended the F.A.A.’s delayed grounding of the Boeing jets. (WSJ)Trade• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that the U.S. and China had agreed on a trade deal enforcement mechanism. (CNBC)Tech• Disney is expected to reveal details about its streaming service, called Disney Plus, to investors later today. (WSJ)• The NYT has launched the Privacy Project to answer some of the biggest questions in our digital lives: Does privacy matter? What do companies know, and how do they know it? And what can we do about it? (NYT)• Over 3,500 Amazon employees urged the company to do more on climate change. Others have been listening to audio clips from users’ utterances to Alexa — and sharing amusing ones in an internal chat room. (NYT, Bloomberg)• A new bill in Congress would force tech companies to evaluate their algorithms for bias. (Verge)• Ads could be coming to Google Maps. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• The head of the I.R.S. said that parents in the college admissions scandal could face big tax bills. (Bloomberg)• Automakers are preparing for regulatory chaos and a divided U.S. car market when the Trump administration rolls back emissions standards. (NYT)• JetBlue will start operating flights to London. (NYT)• Minutes from the last Fed meeting suggest a growing belief at the central bank that there is little need to change rates this year. (WSJ)• Why investors need more transparency into how C.E.O. pay is linked to performance. (WSJ op-ed)• Julian Assange was taken into police custody this morning after being evicted from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article did not include the full context of a question to Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive, about the bank’s policies with regard to lending to the gun industry, and of Mr. Dimon’s response. The article has been revised to include that context.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byIt could have answered the concerns of citizens. Instead it bolted. By Bill de BlasioMr. de Blasio is mayor of New York City.The first word I had that Amazon was about to scrap an agreement to bring 25,000 new jobs to New York City came an hour before it broke in the news on Thursday.The call was brief and there was little explanation for the company’s reversal.Just days before, I had counseled a senior Amazon executive about how they could win over some of their critics. Meet with organized labor. Start hiring public housing residents. Invest in infrastructure and other community needs. Show you care about fairness and creating opportunity for the working people of Long Island City.There was a clear path forward. Put simply: If you don’t like a small but vocal group of New Yorkers questioning your company’s intentions or integrity, prove them wrong.Instead, Amazon proved them right. Just two hours after a meeting with residents and community leaders to move the project forward, the company abruptly canceled it all.I am a lifelong progressive who sees the problem of growing income and wealth inequality. The agreement we struck with Amazon back in November was a solid foundation. It would have created: at least 25,000 new jobs, including for unionized construction and service workers; partnerships with public colleges; and $27 billion in new tax revenue to fuel priorities from transit to affordable housing — a ninefold return on the taxes the city and state were prepared to forgo to win the headquarters.The retail giant’s expansion in New York encountered opposition in no small part because of growing frustration with corporate America. For decades, wealth and power have concentrated at the very top. There’s no greater example of this than Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos — the richest man in the world.The lesson here is that corporations can’t ignore rising anger over economic inequality anymore. We see that anger roiling Silicon Valley, in the rocks hurled at buses carrying tech workers from San Francisco and Oakland to office parks in the suburbs. We see it in the protests that erupted at Davos last month over the growing monopoly of corporate power.Amazon’s capricious decision to take its ball and go home, in the face of protest, won’t diminish that anger. The city and state were holding up our end. And more important, a sizable majority of New Yorkers were on board. Support for the new headquarters was strongest in communities of color and among working people who too often haven’t gotten the economic opportunity they deserved. A project that could’ve opened a path to the middle class for thousands of families was scuttled by a few very powerful people sitting in a boardroom in Seattle.In the end, Amazon seemed unwilling to bend or even to talk in earnest with the community about ways to shape their project. They didn’t want to be in a city where they had to engage critics at all. And it’s a pattern. When Seattle’s City Council passed a tax on big employers to fund the battle against homelessness, the company threatened to stop major expansion plans, putting 7,000 jobs at risk. The tax was rescinded.Economic power — the kind that allows you to dangle 50,000 jobs and billions in revenue over every metropolitan area in the country — is being steadily concentrated into fewer and fewer hands.For a generation, working people have gotten more and more productive, have worked longer and longer hours, and haven’t gotten their fair share in return. C.E.O.s are reaping the benefits of that work, while the people actually responsible for it are keeping less and less.This is no accident. The same day Amazon announced its decision to halt its second headquarters here, it was reported that the company would pay no federal income tax on the billions in profits it made last year. That’s galling, especially at a time when millions of working-class and middle-class Americans are finding that they are getting smaller tax returns this year thanks to President Trump’s tax plan, which has hugely benefited the wealthy.As the mayor of the nation’s largest city, a place that’s both a progressive beacon and the very symbol of capitalism, I share the frustration about corporate America. So do many of my fellow mayors across the country. We know the game is rigged. But we still find ourselves fighting one another in the race to secure opportunity for our residents as corporations force us into all-against-all competitions. Amazon’s HQ2 bidding war exemplified that injustice. It’s time to end that economic warfare with a national solution that prevents corporations from pitting cities against one another.Some companies get it. Salesforce founder and chief executive Marc Benioff threw his weight behind a new corporate tax in San Francisco to fund services for the homeless. In January, Microsoft pledged $500 million to combat the affordable housing crisis in Seattle.Amazon’s path in New York would have been far smoother had it recognized our residents’ fears of economic insecurity and displacement — and spoken to them directly.We just witnessed another example of what the concentration of power in the hands of huge corporations leaves in its wake. Let’s change the rules before the next corporation tries to divide and conquer.Bill de Blasio is mayor of New York City.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byON LOCATIONFrom the street, the house is French Norman style, with a turret; in back, it’s a modernist showplace.15 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Tim McKeoughWhen Bob Boyce and Victor Ren first saw their home in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Seattle, “it was not the kind of house we were looking for,” said Mr. Boyce, 48.“Our aesthetic is pretty modern and clean,” he said, while the French Norman-style house with a turret, built in 1927, was more like “ye olde countryside manor.”So when they bought it in 2014 for $2.4 million, they knew they would put their own stamp on it.At the time, they were living in Shanghai and planning a move to the United States. Mr. Boyce, who grew up in Montana, had moved to China in 1994 and founded Blue Horizon Hospitality Group, which owns Western-style restaurants there (he sold the business in 2017). That’s where he met Mr. Ren, who was born in Mongolia and worked in supply-chain logistics management before opening his own restaurant and bar.For many years, the couple spent summers at a vacation house in Montana, overlooking Flathead Lake. “At the time, it was the perfect antidote to a giant metropolis,” Mr. Boyce said. “Montana is the polar opposite of Shanghai.”But for year-round living, they wanted a more urban setting. They chose Seattle for the buzz associated with companies like Amazon, Microsoft and Starbucks, and because they had friends and family there, including Mr. Boyce’s sister.“It reminds us of Shanghai 15 or 20 years ago, when it started booming,” said Mr. Ren, 45.While they were browsing real estate listings from abroad, one of their Seattle friends suggested the house they eventually bought. With a lot of more than a half-acre and an expansive, parklike backyard, it seemed promising, if not what they initially had in mind.Mr. Boyce dispatched his sister to take a look.“My sister said, ‘I think you guys would really love this place,’” he recalled. “We put in an offer, sight unseen, contingent on me looking at it and approving.”When he flew to Seattle, he was impressed. “It had a lot of really interesting and charming details, like the barrel ceiling in the living room, leaded glass, little stained-glass details and really beautiful mahogany doors and frames,” he said.But like most older houses, it needed work. Some materials and finishes looked tired, the kitchen and master suite were small, and a previous owner had tacked on a small addition in the 1990s that seemed out of place.After closing, the friend who had found the house recommended they contact Bellan Construction, a general contracting company, about the changes they wanted to make. The contractors, in turn, introduced them to Lisa Chadbourne and Daren Doss, the married principals of Chadbourne + Doss Architects. The architects were charmed by the property, and equally perturbed by the addition, as it compromised the flow of interior space and did little to connect the house to one of its greatest assets: the backyard. “It was pretty obvious that we had to rip it off,” Mr. Doss said.“We really wanted to explore ways to open the house up to that amazing backyard,” Ms. Chadbourne said, explaining that they envisioned a modernist conservatory, wrapped in glass.The two-story addition they designed was enclosed by floor-to-ceiling sliding glass doors, with an open kitchen and family room on the ground floor and a master bedroom and covered roof deck on top.In the 1927 portion of the home, they employed a light touch, restoring most of the original details and adding lighting, walnut built-ins and blackened-steel fireplace surrounds. “We tried to create a cohesive palette throughout the house with this warm, rich wood, blackened steel and white plaster,” Ms. Chadbourne said.They also made a few key changes to the floor plan of the 4,850-square-foot house. They combined a series of small, disjointed rooms upstairs to create a new master bathroom with a deep marble soaking tub. And they converted the former master bedroom into a dressing room with its own fireplace and plenty of space to spread out.“It has a bit of a men’s club feel to it,” Mr. Boyce said. “All of our friends get really jealous when they go in.”As the scope of the project grew, Ms. Chadbourne and Mr. Doss took on the property’s outbuildings, transforming a large backyard playhouse into a guesthouse with a bathroom. They also converted a potting shed into a structure that can function as a bar and turned part of a detached garage into a bathhouse with a hot tub behind it. New gardens and hardscape features designed by the landscape architecture firm Alchemie weave all of the structures together.To the owners’ dismay, the construction and landscaping took around two years to complete and cost about as much as the house did.“We started building just before Seattle hit overdrive, so getting subcontractors was difficult just because it was such a boom time,” Mr. Boyce said. “Everything got stretched out and became more expensive.”But now that they are finished, he said, it feels like home: “It’s turned into a place we just don’t really want to leave.”For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Kate CongerEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hello, friends. I’m Kate Conger, a tech reporter in The Times’s San Francisco bureau. It has been another earnings news week, which means we’re learning exactly how much money the local tech companies earned in 2018.The news might not surprise you: Everyone in Silicon Valley is still raking in cash. Apple is the country’s most valuable public company again, after briefly losing the title to Amazon. Facebook has shattered its own considerable records for profit and revenue, despite increasing scrutiny of its business practices.And a flock of companies is set to join the tech giants in the public market. Slack, the workplace chat app that I compulsively check throughout my day, has filed for its initial public offering. It’s now in line behind Uber and Lyft for a 2019 debut on Wall Street. Airbnb and Pinterest are likely to follow, bringing a fresh wave of money to one of the most expensive regions in the United States.New wealth and tech is nothing new, of course. But it is notable that tech companies have done so well in a difficult year for the industry.Executives from Google, Facebook and Twitter were called to Washington to answer lawmakers’ concerns about political bias, privacy violations and excessive market power.In Europe, antitrust worries are on the rise. In 2017, Google paid what was a record fine of $2.7 billion. Last year, Google was fined again, this time for $5.1 billion.Just this past week, Germany announced that it would crack down on the way Facebook collects and combines data on its users as they browse the web. British doctors recommended that parents limit their children’s exposure to screens and social media, while my co-worker Brian X. Chen wrote about “bait apps” that trick kids into spending money online.The tech industry’s honeymoon with the rest of the world seems to be over. Except when it comes to making money.Snapchat and Twitter, two social media services that seemed to be struggling just months ago, posted better-than-anticipated earnings this past week. Google, which is facing down employee protests and regulatory scrutiny in the United States and Europe, posted a 22 percent increase in revenue.Our Google beat reporter, Daisuke Wakabayashi, wrote why it’s possible for tech firms to continue earning record profits even as the public’s perception of them sours. Google, he said, is the “internet’s ultimate beachfront property.” If you want to swim in the ocean, you need to walk across Google’s private beach first.Even if you don’t like the way a tech company behaves, boycotting may be an impossible challenge.I’ve been fascinated by Kashmir Hill’s series at Gizmodo about her struggles to extricate herself from the so-called Big Five: Google, Amazon, Microsoft, Apple and Facebook. She recounted all the missed texts and wrong turns she made as she tried to get through her day without the technology that I take for granted. The series is a warning about the uphill battle we’d all face if we decided to limit our collective tech addiction.And as long as it remains difficult to quit, tech’s profits will continue to soar.In other news:■ Newsrooms are increasingly relying on artificial intelligence to churn out quick news pieces about earthquakes, sports scores and — of course — earnings. “Robot reporters” are on the rise at Bloomberg, The Washington Post and other publications. Here at The Times, our A.I. experimentation has been limited to newsletter personalization, Jaclyn Peiser reports. Maybe someday soon, a robot reporter will be picking these stories to share with you.■ Did you know the North Pole could move? I learned that the magnetic north pole is heading toward Siberia at a surprising pace, thanks to a fascinating report from Shannon Hall. The pole, which I’d always assumed was a fixed point, is on the move thanks to the “sloshing” of liquid iron in the outer core of the Earth, and we have to continually track it so that navigation systems remain reliable. But we’re a bit behind because of the government shutdown.■ Instacart revised its tipping policy this past week after backlash from the delivery people who pick up items for shoppers and deliver them to their doorsteps. Late last year, Instacart started counting tips against payments to its delivery people, essentially stripping them of their tips.“It’s offensive, it’s unethical, and in this climate it’s a very dumb thing to do,” one Instacart courier told Kevin Roose. Now, Instacart has reversed course and will include tips on top of the delivery fee it pays its shoppers.■ Even though Facebook is banned in China, the company found a way to generate an estimated $5 billion from the country, Paul Mozur and Lin Qiqing report. To tap the market, Facebook has created what sounds like an Ikea floor model that allows interested advertisers to familiarize themselves with the platform while it remains hidden behind China’s Great Firewall.Kate Conger is based in San Francisco and writes about the technology industry. Follow her on Twitter: @kateconger.Kate Conger writes about privacy and tech policy issues, as well as Uber and Twitter. Follow her on Twitter: @kateconger.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David E. SangerWASHINGTON — The Trump administration is expanding its efforts to block Chinese acquisitions in the United States, moving to force a Chinese firm that owns Grindr, the gay dating app, to relinquish control over concerns that Beijing could use personal information to blackmail or influence American officials, according to people familiar with the situation.The action, which is being driven by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, is unusual given that the panel typically investigates mergers that could result in control of an American business by a foreign individual or company, judging whether deals could threaten national security. This appears to be the first case in which the United States has asserted that foreign control of a social media app could have national security implications.The administration has not announced the move, which will require that Grindr be sold, or explained it. But officials familiar with the case, which was first reported by Reuters, say the concern focused on the potential for the blackmail of American officials or contractors, if China threatened to disclose their sexual orientation, or track their movements or dating habits.Three years ago, a Chinese firm that owns both gaming and credit services businesses, Beijing Kunlun Tech Co. Ltd., a public company listed on the Shenzhen stock exchange, bought a 60 percent stake in Grindr, which is based in West Hollywood, Calif., for $93 million. Early last year, it bought the remaining shares for a little over $150 million.While there were news reports about both transactions, the United States did not take action to block the acquisitions. Since then, the United States’ definition of national security threats has expanded, in part over concerns by the Trump administration and lawmakers about China’s ability to gain access to critical American technology.It is unclear why the panel, known as Cfius, acted now, more than three years after control of the company switched to Chinese hands. And so far, there is no public evidence that any information on the app has been used by the Chinese government.But Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said he, along with several other senators, asked Cfius to conduct a review.“Last year, my office met with a top official from the Treasury Department to express my serious concerns about the national security risks associated with a Chinese company buying Grindr,” he said in a statement. While he said he could not “confirm specific actions by Cfius,” a highly secretive panel, “it is high time for the administration and Cfius to consider the national security impact of foreign companies acquiring large, sensitive troves of Americans’ private data.”Congress handed more power to the panel last year, allowing it to examine transactions that fell short of majority control of a company and involved just minority stakes. The expansion was an effort to counter Chinese minority investments in Silicon Valley companies that gave investors an early look at emerging technologies.The Kunlun purchases had never been submitted to Cfius, giving the government the leverage to go back in after the sale to try to force a divestment. Calls to Kunlun’s office number were not answered, and emails seeking comment were not returned.Grindr has already faced questions about its control and use of personal data. The company faced a huge backlash for sharing users’ H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal details with outside software vendors. After the data sharing was made public by European researchers in 2018, the company said it would stop sharing H.I.V. data with outside companies.Last year was the first time Cfius appeared to be concerned about the purchase of companies that contained sensitive data. The government killed a proposed merger last year between MoneyGram, the money transfer firm, and Ant Financial, a payments company related to the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba.The United States has also embarked on a global campaign to block a big Chinese telecom equipment giant, Huawei, from building the next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, over concerns that it could divert critical data through China, or be forced to turn over data running through its networks to Beijing. The White House has essentially accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the administration’s efforts to control what kind of personal data is available to China’s intelligence services may have come too late. China’s ministry of state security and other Chinese groups have already been accused of successfully stealing personal data from American databases.The theft of 22 million security clearance files from the Office of Personnel Management in 2014, along with similar theft of data from the Anthem insurance networks and Marriott hotels, have all been attributed to Chinese actors by American intelligence officials, who say they were most likely operating on behalf of the government.The files stolen in the 2014 government breach contain far more personal data than the Chinese could probably find on any individual social media site: They include work history on sensitive United States projects, information about bankruptcies, medical conditions, relationship histories, and any contacts with foreigners. The loss of the information forced the C.I.A. to reassign personnel headed to China, and was considered among the largest losses of sensitive security information in decades. The Obama administration declined to publicly concede that the breach was committed by Chinese intelligence services.China has taken steps of its own to limit foreign companies’ access to its citizens’ personal information. A recently enacted cybersecurity law mandates that user data be stored in the country, where it can be kept under the government’s control. In response to the law, Apple said it would open its first data center in China, and formed a partnership with a Chinese company to run the center and handle data requests from the government.Before the law even came into effect, the Chinese government had pressured foreign technology companies to operate servers only within its borders — meaning the data is available to Chinese authorities under Chinese law. Amazon and Microsoft have partnered with Chinese firms to offer cloud computing services to Chinese customers.The United States has also pressed China to allow insurance companies and other American firms that control personal data to enter the Chinese market, a demand that goes back nearly two decades. China has agreed to do so, and that agreement is expected to be part of the larger trade deal being negotiated between American and Chinese negotiators.But the Grindr case could give the Chinese government an excuse to make its own national security claims if American firms sought to purchase a Chinese insurance company, or any of its social media firms.Raymond Zhong contributed reporting from Shenzhen, and Michael J. de la Merced from London.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byMaking yourself inaccessible from time to time is essential to boosting your focus.By Anna GoldfarbWhen David Rock needs to immerse himself in his work, he goes offline. Being reachable, he knows, will tank his productivity.In fact, Dr. Rock, the C.E.O. of The Neuroleadership Institute and author of “Your Brain at Work,” was able to write four books during several flights to and from Australia. He credits the long stretches of uninterrupted time with granting him the ability to fully concentrate on assembling those book drafts.Sure, not everyone can hop a 13-hour flight to Australia when they need to finish a project. But the lesson Dr. Rock learned is applicable regardless: Making ourselves inaccessible from time to time is essential to boosting our focus. A 2017 survey from the American Psychological Association found that being constantly and permanently reachable on an electronic device — checking work emails on your day off; continuously cycling through social media feeds; responding to text messages at all hours — is associated with higher stress levels.This phenomenon of always being reachable is what Linda Stone, a former Apple and Microsoft executive, calls continuous partial attention. Unlike multitasking — juggling activities of similar importance that don’t require too much cognitive processing — C.P.A. is a state of alertness during which you’re motivated by the desire not to miss out on anything.Ms. Stone, who gives lectures and consults on issues relating to technology and attention, describes C.P.A. as an “always-on, anywhere, anytime, any place behavior that involves an artificial sense of constant crisis.” Being distractible — allowing incessant beeps, flashes and trills to shatter any semblance of concentration — contributes to a strained lifestyle, she said. Half-paying attention to everything means you’re not able to fully pay attention to anything.This kind of task switching comes with a cost. It’s called attention residue, a term established by Sophie Leroy, a professor at the Bothell School of Business at the University of Washington. In a 2009 study, Dr. Leroy found that if people transition their attention away from an unfinished task, their subsequent task performance will suffer. For example, if you interrupt writing an email to reply to a text message, it will take time to refocus when you turn your attention back to finishing your email. That little bit of time of adjusting your focus — the residue — compounds throughout the day. As we fragment our attention, fatigue and stress increases, which negatively affects performance.“You can’t positively adapt to stress if you’re consistently run down,” said Paula Davis-Laack, a stress and resilience expert. “We know that chronic stress is linked to higher rates of errors, safety issues, lack of concentration, working memory problems, and inhibits effective problem-solving and kills attention. For many people, these are critical tools to effectively do their jobs, and rates of errors and safety issues impact a wide range of industries where precision is critical.”Besides compromising your ability to be an effective worker, “being available to everyone at all times is exhausting,” said Catherine Price, author of “How to Break Up With Your Phone” and the founder of Screen/Life Balance, a movement dedicated to helping people create a healthier balance between their online and offline lives. “We need to intentionally make ourselves unavailable to preserve our own sanity.”Here’s what you can expect when you make yourself less accessible, put reasonable boundaries in place and reclaim your time.Ms. Price suggests trying to be unreachable for short periods of time, but she cautions you might feel twitchy and anxious at first.“Those are withdrawal symptoms,” she said. “Stick with it, and within a surprisingly short amount of time, the anxiety is likely to shift to a pleasant sense of calm.”She doesn’t think or expect people to ditch their phones entirely — “that would be very impractical and unrealistic” — but she does recommend experimenting with taking a 24-hour break once in a while. Yes, she emphasizes, it is possible to do. It just requires some advance planning.At the very least, she said, start leaving your phone behind during certain periods of the day, and perhaps establishing no-phone zones in your house or workplace. Treat it as an experiment: Try things and see what makes you feel good, she said.A still mind is fertile ground for creative thoughts. Being unstimulated gives the brain a chance to explore ideas and create new connections that can break through into our conscious awareness, Dr. Rock explained. That’s why we tend to get so many good ideas as we wake up or take a shower — the brain is usually a blank slate while sudsing up.“Our ‘Aha moments’ are literally quiet brain signals,” said Dr. Rock. To facilitate more flashes of inspiration, make space for these serene moments. Being “always on” and jam-packing your schedule with demanding cognitive tasks impedes the number of big ideas you’ll be able to create. Those bright, bold ideas are the ones that motivate us and can feel the most rewarding.If you want to think deeply or have any sort of creative insight, you must give your brain breathing room, Ms. Price added. It’s not wise to always be in “intake mode,” which is what can happen when mindlessly scrolling through emails and social media feeds. To form long-term memories, you need to create new pathways in the brain, a process easily disrupted by distraction, Ms. Price said. Sadly, our smartphones are built to distract us.Ms. Davis-Laack said she wishes workplaces were more accepting of this need to unplug occasionally.“Working to the extreme is often seen as a badge of honor at work and is highly rewarded,” she said. “Organizations bear a lot of the burden to examine values, process and cultural issues generally that support the inability to disconnect, recharge and recover.”“We have literally become addicted to doing stuff all the time, and think that downtime is laziness or somehow a missed opportunity to get ahead,” Ms. Davis-Laack said. “Organizations reward this, so it’s reinforced.” Unfortunately, it’s up to us individually to put those boundaries in place.For optimal productivity, Dr. Rock suggests focusing intensely for around 45 minutes and then indulging in a 15-minute break. The brain is not a muscle, he said, but it does need to rest and replenish like a muscle does.He also recommends taking a brief nap in the afternoon, which has tremendous cognitive benefits.“You wouldn’t expect someone to do a physical task like chop wood for hours on end with no break,” he said. “It’s similar with the brain.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misidentified the business school at which Sophie Leroy is a professor.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe digital world is not designed to keep women safe. New regulations should be.By Emily ChangMs. Chang, an anchor at Bloomberg TV, is the author of “Brotopia.”Like too many women, I’ve been harassed online. The harasser described in explicit detail how he intended to violate me, though somehow his threats didn’t violate Twitter’s terms of service. Twitter, despite my repeated reports, did nothing. So I did. I gradually tightened my privacy settings across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. I mostly stopped sharing personal, nonwork-related updates and deleted photos of my children; I haven’t posted new pictures for more than a year.I’m a tech journalist, so perhaps I am extra-sensitive to the dangers of the internet. But my concerns are widely shared by other women.Several studies have found that women are more concerned about privacy risks online than men and are more likely to keep their profiles private and delete unwanted contacts. Female Italian college students are less likely to share their political views and relationship status than men and are more concerned about risks posed by other users and third parties. Norwegian women post fewer selfies than Norwegian men.In other words, digital privacy is a women’s issue. We just don’t think about it that way, or discuss it that way. Of course, privacy is a concern for everyone, but this is also an issue, like health care, on which women have a particular view. Women know, for example, what consent really means. It’s not scrolling through seemingly endless “terms of service” and then checking a box. Online consent, just as it is with our bodies, should be clear, informed and a requirement for online platforms. These views are shaped by the reality that women experience the internet differently, just as the experience of walking down a dark alley, or even a busy street, is different for women than it is for men. One Pew study found that women are far more likely to be sexually harassed online and describe these interactions as extremely upsetting. The Department of Justice reports that about 75 percent of the victims of stalking and cyberstalking are women. And so women look over our shoulders online, just as we do in real life.It isn’t just that real-life harassment also shows up online, it’s that the internet isn’t designed for women, even when the majority of users of some popular applications and platforms are women. In fact, some features of digital life have been constructed, intentionally or not, in ways that make women feel less safe.For example, you can’t easily use Facebook’s WhatsApp messaging service without a phone number, which many women don’t want to share. Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has promised to build encrypted communication into all its platforms. Just as important is giving users the option to make their messages disappear, so that if a hostile ex somehow got into your phone there would be nothing to see. Even well-meaning efforts at transparency don’t always work that way for women. Lyft’s car pool service shares the registered names of passengers with everyone else in the car. The first name of an incoming passenger flashes in lights across the dashboard, a feature intended to let riders know they are in the right car. A privacy researcher told me that she once jumped into a Lyft shared ride wearing a sweatshirt with her company’s logo. The next day, she received an email from a male passenger saying, “I found you!” Clearly, he had been able to use her first name and the name of her company to track her down online. What he may have thought was cute, she thought was creepy. “Do I have any control over this interaction?” the researcher asked. “You want control over the self you’re putting online, just like you want control over your body.” Note to Lyft: Some passengers would be safer if they were anonymous.With Congress considering whether to draft new privacy regulations, it is important that the specific concerns of women be taken into account now, while the rules are being debated.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]California’s new privacy law is a case in point: It is a bold piece of legislation, but it falls short for women. In the event of a data breach, for example, consumers in California will have the right to sue if certain kinds of personally identifying information, like Social Security numbers or driver’s license numbers, are compromised. But that may not include material like intimate emails or explicit photos. The current iteration of the law is so murky that it’s not clear whether Jennifer Lawrence, the actress whose nude photos were stolen from her iCloud account in 2014 and made public, would have a case against Apple if a similar incident occurred after the law goes into effect next year.California’s “right to be forgotten” also doesn’t go as far as Europe’s new privacy legislation, the most sweeping data reform in history. Under the California law, consumers have the right to delete information they personally provide to companies. But if someone else — say, an unhappy ex — posted something about me online, I would not be able to get that taken down. Under Europe’s new law, though, I would at least be able to request such a post be removed. Although women’s groups have defended privacy as it pertains to abortion, they haven’t yet broadly taken up the issue of digital privacy. Among the few to do so publicly is a grass-roots effort called Catalina’s List, a backer of the California law. “Anything that gives big business an upper hand on individual choices is corrupting the idea of personal choice, freedom and privacy,” a co-founder of Catalina’s List, Bobbi Jo Chavarria, told me. Weaker federal privacy legislation could eventually override the California law. Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft all contributed money to groups opposing the California law, and last year these companies and Apple spent more than $64 million lobbying Congress on privacy and other issues. Tech companies are pushing for what they want; as the research shows, that’s not necessarily what women want.So what can Americans do? First, we must elect more women to positions of power who can help write privacy legislation. I don’t think it’s a coincidence that two of the top digital policymakers in Europe are women, including Margrethe Vestager, the European Union’s competition commissioner, and Elizabeth Denham, Britain’s information commissioner.The law, of course, will never be as fast as tech companies. They should build products and services that respect privacy by design. To do that, these companies need to hire and consult more women. Women hold just 25 percent of jobs across the tech industry and an even smaller percentage of prime engineering roles.Most important, all of us must start thinking about privacy as a feminist issue. We cannot wait for women’s concerns to be addressed. The stakes for us are far too high.Emily Chang (@emilychangtv) is an anchor at Bloomberg TV and the author of “Brotopia.”Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.I’ve been thinking a lot about that famous egg — you know, the one that just broke the world record for the most-liked Instagram post ever. It’s a normal egg, brown, with freckles, nothing special. It could’ve been the egg you’ll eat for breakfast this morning. Instead, it hatched an internet phenomenon, for reasons no one can explain.Say what you will about that egg and those who cared about it. But in a week when much of the world seemed so mired in acrimony, it was a small (very small) symbol of what collective effort can do. Speaking of accomplishments, prepare for the week ahead with the top stories in business and tech, below. Then go enjoy an omelet.Jan. 13-19President Trump’s government shutdown continues, and the household budgets of federal employees are hurting. Some 800,000 haven’t been paid in weeks, and a typical furloughed worker is now about $5,000 behind in salary. Thousands have filed for unemployment. They’ve cut back on spending and investing, which is taking a serious bite out of the country’s economic growth. On a warmer note, some thoughtful souls have been offering free pizza, wine, financial services and even homemade casseroles to unpaid workers across the country. Still, none of these gestures can substitute for a paycheck.Remember the ex-partner at Goldman Sachs who helped steal $2.7 billion from a Malaysian sovereign wealth fund, spending his share on designer bags and diamond necklaces? Though Goldman tried to distance itself from the scandal, it recently earmarked $516 million to cover potential penalties. Nevertheless, the bank beat analysts’ expectations with a sunny earnings report on Wednesday. The fourth-quarter numbers of other big banks were mixed, breaking a yearlong streak of the industry’s record profits. But in light of the market’s plummet in December, they are still doing better than some analysts predicted.Skyrocketing living costs have made many tech-centric cities, particularly on the West Coast, inaccessible to teachers, firefighters and pretty much anyone else who isn’t making a fat salary. In Seattle, Microsoft is trying to stem that exodus by putting up $500 million to finance affordable homes. While some say the pledge is too little, too late, it’s still the most ambitious step that any tech company has taken to solve the housing crisis of its own making.Jan. 20-26It’s Groundhog Day across the pond. By Monday, Prime Minister Theresa May must cobble together a new plan for Britain’s departure from the European Union. As predicted, Parliament resoundingly struck down her proposal last week — but, hey, she kept her job despite a no-confidence vote the next day. A no-deal Brexit, which could wreak havoc on the British economy and its trading partners, looks more and more likely. Some companies are starting to brace themselves; the deadline is less than 10 weeks away.Who started the opioid epidemic? A Massachusetts court will hold a status hearing this week in a case that contends the Sackler family, owner of the company that makes OxyContin, should be held partly accountable. The business, Purdue Pharma, has already paid hundreds of millions of dollars in fines for misrepresenting the dangers of the painkiller, which was once marketed as having an addiction risk of “less than 1 percent” (nope). Sackler family members have claimed to be unaware of such practices, but evidence in a court filing by the Massachusetts attorney general suggests that they were more involved than they let on. Purdue Pharma said in a statement that the filing was “littered with biases and inaccurate characterizations.”There will be some notable absences at the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this week. Mr. Trump canceled the United States delegation, citing a need to keep his administrators in Washington during the government shutdown. Mrs. May has also bowed out (see above). This year’s forum was supposed to focus on rising tensions between world powers and the possibility of a full-blown global trade war. But with major players missing in action, how far will they get?Crooks: They love the internet. Facebook uncovered two more Russian-backed misinformation campaigns and deleted more than 500 pages and accounts as a result. Meanwhile, two men were charged with hacking into the Securities and Exchange Commission’s database to steal secrets that fetched about $4.1 million in illegal profits. In other news, the pop star Rihanna is teaming up with the luxury conglomerate LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton to start a fashion brand. She’d be its first female designer of color.$13: The new cost of Netflix’s most popular streaming plan. The monthly fee was increased by $2 last Tuesday for new subscribers, while existing users won’t see the upcharge for a few months. The company attributed its higher rates to one simple reason: It takes a lot of money to create quality content.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTHE DAILY NEWSLETTERWhy we use so much of it on the show.By Michael Barbaro[Want to get this by email? Here’s the sign-up.]Listeners have come to expect it. Lots of it.Tape.Audio of real-world events as they unfold. Press conferences. Speeches. Newsreel. Archival recordings.It’s woven into almost every episode of “The Daily” to transport listeners to a time or a place, to create urgency and immediacy.Here’s an example from Friday’s episode about Michael Jackson. Our guest, the Times culture critic and “Still Processing” co-host Wesley Morris, introduces the film “Leaving Neverland,” and tape begins to weave in and out around him.Michael: What do we need to talk about this week?Wesley: It’s probably “Leaving Neverland,” this Michael Jackson documentary. Tape: Not a trailer or even a single clip of this new documentary has been released ahead of its debut today, but that has not slowed the buzz behind it.Wesley: I became aware of this movie as it was making its way towards Sundance in January.Tape: It’s probably right now the most talked-about film at Sundance.What’s the point of tape like that? There are a few explanations. First, it alleviates the burden of the guest having to tell the entire story him- or herself. I could listen to Wesley talk all day, but it’s a lot to ask him to deliver every detail of a complex tale. Tape is the ultimate storytelling sidekick. Here, the tape does the work of explaining how much the world awaited this film — or dreaded its arrival. Second, the tape deepens our understanding of the reaction and impact around it. There really were protests over “Leaving Neverland” at the Sundance Film Festival. Don’t take our word for it. The tape brings you there.Every week, producers spend hours hunting for the perfect tape, diving into old archives, watching congressional hearings on C-Span. We’re an obsessive bunch.On Wednesday night, when we learned that the U.S. trade deficit had reached a historic high, we went looking for tape. There was no news conference announcing the news (so no tape there), but we knew President Trump had bemoaned the trade deficit, over and over, in speeches for two years. The hunt was on for the perfect archival moment. Three of us fanned out across the internet until we found it. Here’s how it sounded at the end of Thursday’s episode:Tape of President Trump: Thanks to our powerful trade policies, the trade deficit is falling and falling and falling.Michael: On Wednesday, the Trump administration said that the U.S. trade deficit has surged to the highest level in history, despite two years of “America First” trade policies aimed at reducing it.Tape of President Trump: The days of plundering American jobs and American wealth — those days are over. They’re over. America first. America first.Which brings me to the final point about tape. It allows us to trust you, the listener, not hit you over the head with an argument or needlessly over-explain something. Here was the president boasting that the U.S. trade deficit keeps falling, when, it fact, it keeps rising, so much so that it’s at an all-time high. You can absorb this contradiction without us having to point it out.Is there ever such a thing as bad tape? Oh, yes. When we started the show, people who listen to “The Daily” in their cars told us that any time we played tape of police sirens, they feared a cop was behind them, ready to pull them over. Whoops. We’ve stopped playing that tape.Talk to Michael on Twitter: @mikiebarb.Neal Katyal, a lawyer who wrote the rules governing the Mueller investigation, on how its end might be the beginning of multiple new investigations.What happened to Lindsey Graham, Trump’s enemy-turned-cheerleader? From the senator’s own point of view: nothing at all.When the Pentagon comes knocking, how will Silicon Valley respond? Kevin Roose digs up a cautionary tale for Big Tech.The Green New Deal set off a political roller coaster that has landed somewhere unexpected for Democrats.“For a long time, Michael Jackson controlled this story. He had all the power.” Wesley Morris grapples with why the world has, for so long, looked the other way.In Wednesday’s episode, Kevin Roose explored the backlash from engineers at tech companies like Microsoft and Google when their bosses pursue military contracts. Ed Warren, a former military officer who lives in Bethlehem, N.H., wrote to us about how we framed the episode: “There was an implicit assumption that doing business with the military may be unethical. You have it backwards. As someone who served, the idea that I would be sent to battle with anything less than the best tools and technologies feels deeply unethical. War is an awful, miserable duty but an unavoidable necessity in this world. The fact that some Silicon Valley software engineers don’t want to expend their efforts on tools that help the military execute that mission is ivory tower nonsense.”Here’s Kevin’s response:“Ed, thank you for your note. I really appreciate you listening and taking the time to respond. I’m sure many people in Silicon Valley would agree with you that working with or for the U.S. military is a moral duty. We also have a long national tradition of making accommodations for people who oppose war for ethical or religious reasons, like the thousands of conscientious objectors who were allowed to perform alternative service during World War II instead of doing combat duty. (Fun fact: My grandfather was one of these people.) I can’t speak for the engineers in Silicon Valley, but they could be viewed as part of this tradition — people who might believe the military has a right to modern technology but who, for deeply held personal reasons, don’t want to take part in building it themselves.”“Will the owner of a black and white cat please remove it from studio C ASAP? Litter box too!!!” That was the clarion call the “Daily” team got on Slack last Friday from Brad Fisher, our technical manager, who is a cat lover — but also a lover of expensive audio equipment. The owner of the cat asked to remain unnamed. The name of the cat: Felix.For the biggest stories of our time, told by New York Times journalists each weekday, listen to “The Daily.” You can find it at nytimes.com/thedaily or wherever you get your podcasts.Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.In his 82-minute address last night, President Trump cited U.S. economic growth and his efforts to keep it up, while attacking opponents in a speech that ostensibly called for unity in Washington. Here are the highlights for the business world:Mr. Trump defended his economic record. He took credit for America’s robust economic health — a key message for his 2020 re-election campaign — and assailed critiques of his administration’s efforts, including tax cuts and loosened regulations. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States — and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations,” he said.He kept pressure on China. Mr. Trump promoted his administration’s trade battle with Beijing, saying, “We are now making it clear to China that after years of targeting our industries, and stealing our intellectual property, the theft of American jobs and wealth has come to an end.” Talks between Washington and Beijing over a compromise are continuing.And he painted his potential rivals as socialists. As Democratic presidential contenders promote policies like Medicare for all, Mr. Trump tried to paint them as peddlers of dangerous ideas. “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” he said.What didn’t he talk about? “Trump’s speech was notable for what he did not mention, including the ballooning federal debt, once a centerpiece of the Republican agenda; nor did he talk about Social Security, Medicare or other entitlements,” Philip Rucker and Toluse Olorunnipa of the WaPo write. Democrats fought back. Stacey Abrams, the party’s nominee for Georgia’s governorship last year, focused on “outlining the party’s vision for lower health care costs and a more inclusive immigration policy, and pressing her case that access to the voting booth should be easier, not harder.”Steep cuts could hit Goldman Sachs’s commodities arm, which once generated huge profits for the firm, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.What may happen: “Executives are discussing pulling back from trading iron ore, platinum and other metals, and are ordering cost cuts to the sprawling logistics network that handles the transport and storage of physical commodities,” Ms. Hoffman writes.The context: The business was once one of Wall Street’s most envied money makers. But such trading has suffered in recent years, thanks to changing markets and tighter regulations. And Goldman’s current C.E.O., David Solomon, cut his teeth as an investment banker and is focused on operations like lending and asset management.The symbolism: “By taking a knife to the business, Mr. Solomon is sending a message down the ranks that nothing is sacred,” Ms. Hoffman writes.In recent weeks, several companies — including Ford, G.E., JPMorgan Chase and Wynn Resorts — have missed Wall Street forecasts, only to see their stock prices rise. It’s a classic relief rally, writes Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “Stocks of companies that have reported their results have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade.”• “With the Federal Reserve backing off plans to aggressively hike interest rates, more investors view the market’s downturn last year as overdone. And they are giving rousing ovations to corporate results just because they’re not as bad as they could have been.”• “Analysts said that the current tendency in the markets to see the glass as half-full reflects widespread relief among investors that a recession and a sharp slump in earnings are not in the cards any time soon.”• “Some analysts said that stocks could keep climbing as the market’s rock-bottom expectations keep getting surpassed.”• “At the same time, there is a danger that the stock market’s rise could paper over the genuine problems for the economy that are popping up in fourth-quarter results.”When the Chinese electronics manufacturer Foxconn decided to set up shop in the Midwest, President Trump hailed the move as “one of the great deals ever.” But Bloomberg Businessweek, which interviewed 49 people familiar with the project, reports how badly the effort has gone.The plan was to create a high-tech manufacturing hub. It was to be led by a Mount Pleasant plant housing a large chunk of Foxconn’s LCD TV production. “As Foxconn has discovered, there is no better place to build, hire, and grow than right here in the U.S.,” Mr. Trump said at the time, promising that it would create as many as 13,000 jobs.But manufacturing hasn’t taken off. “LCD components weren’t made in the U.S.A., according to sources familiar with the operation,” Austin Carr of Businessweek writes. “They were shipped from a Foxconn factory in Tijuana. The Wisconsin plant was only handling the last steps of assembly.” He adds that “during 2018, the company tried and failed to produce its own LCD materials at scale in Wisconsin so it wouldn’t have to import them from Mexico.”Nor has pay or recruitment. “Pay at the factory started at about $14 an hour with no benefits, much less than the $23 average Foxconn promised. Many people weren’t hired full time,” Mr. Carr writes. “Last fall, the company’s hiring targets began dropping internally,” he adds, with Foxconn importing foreign staff for some roles.Keeping hold of the title of most valuable American company is proving to be difficult, Stephen Grocer of the NYT writes:• “The positions of Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon have been flip-flopping since the wipeout in the iPhone maker’s stock price late last year.”• “The mantle has changed hands seven times among the three companies. Three of those switches have taken place over the past week as the big tech companies reported quarterly results.”• “The competition reflects the global economic concerns hanging over the markets as well as the changing technology landscape, and it’s a shift from past years.”A bill introduced by Senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock drew outrage from many in the corporate world — and tempted Goldman Sachs’s former C.E.O. Lloyd Blankfein to tweet for the first time in nearly seven months.Mr. Blankfein’s take: “A company used to be encouraged to return money to shareholders when it couldn’t reinvest in itself for a good return,” he tweeted. “The money doesn’t vanish, it gets reinvested in higher growth businesses that boost the economy and jobs. Is that bad?”Mr. Sanders’s retort: The senator shot back that a buyback, “increases the wealth of billionaires” like Mr. Blankfein. “Instead of making the very rich even richer, how about increasing wages for American workers. Is that a bad idea?”More buyback news: SoftBank of Japan plans to spend $5.5 billion of proceeds from the listing of its telecommunications arm to repurchase stock.The Government Accountability Office has published a report of the president’s travel expenses, which show the cost of his visits to his Florida holiday home:• From Feb. 3 to March 5 in 2017, Mr. Trump spent portions of 14 days at the holiday home. The G.A.O. said that those trips had cost a total of $13.6 million, or just less than $1 million per day.• The costs included travel and accommodations, Secret Service expenses and bomb detection. Almost $60,000 was paid directly to Mar-a-Lago.• The Democratic senators Dianne Feinstein and Gary Peters, who requested the report, said the findings provide “a snapshot of the tens of millions of dollars President Trump spends to travel to his Palm Beach resort — all at taxpayer expense — including government funds that are paid directly to a business in which the president himself has a financial interest.”Angela Ahrendts will step down as Apple’s retail chief in April after a five-year run. She’ll be succeeded by Deirdre O’Brien, the company’s head of human resources.SeaWorld Entertainment said it would hire Gus Antorcha, who was most recently Carniva Cruise Line’s chief operating officer, as its new C.E.O.Goldman Sachs promoted Nick Giovanni to co-head of its global tech, media and telecom investment banking team.Deals• Reddit is reportedly raising as much as $300 million in fresh capital at a valuation of about $2.7 billion. (TechCrunch)• Tyson Foods has reportedly held talks to buy Foster Farms, a producer of chicken products, for about $2 billion. (CNBC)• Qatar Petroleum and Exxon Mobil plan to invest $10 billion in a Texas hub for exporting natural gas. (NYT)• The activist investor Edward Bramson has renewed his push for a seat on the board of Barclays. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft led a $250 million investment in Databricks, a self-professed “boring A.I.” start-up, at a $2.75 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Spotify has struck deals to buy Gimlet Media, the podcast production company, and Anchor, a start-up that helps people make their own podcasts. (Recode)• The E.U. has blocked a merger of the rail divisions of Siemens and Alstom, saying the deal reduced competition too much. (European Commission)Politics and policy• Imaad Zuberi, a venture capitalist and longtime Democratic donor who later gave to Republicans after the 2016 campaign, has drawn scrutiny in a federal inquiry into President Trump’s inauguration. (NYT)• Federal prosecutors are investigating foreign payments to three law and lobbying firms — Mercury Public Affairs; the Podesta Group; and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom — recruited by Paul Manafort. (NYT)• A bipartisan group of senators proposed reimposing sanctions on ZTE if the Chinese telecom company again violates U.S. laws. (CNBC)• The Trump administration has sought to shore up support for its pick to lead the World Bank, David Malpass, ahead of an expected announcement of the nomination today. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump plans to meet with Kim Jong-un of North Korea in Vietnam later this month to revive their nuclear-weapons talks. (NYT)Trade• The Chinese government says that a U.S. report on its compliance with World Trade Organization rules is incorrect. (Reuters)• The U.S. has become Britain’s top oil supplier for the first time since the Suez crisis in 1956. (FT)• U.S. soybean farmers say they don’t share President Trump’s optimism about the sale of their crops to China. (Business Insider)Tech• France ordered Apple to pay back taxes that could amount to hundreds of millions of euros. (FT)• Snap’s stock price jumped over 20 percent after disclosing record revenues — but Bloomberg warns that “not performing terrible is not the same as performing well.” (WSJ, Bloomberg Opinion)• Huawei could face a 5G ban in Canada. (Bloomberg)• China’s economic slowdown is hurting its tech start-ups. (WSJ)• Facebook has taken down 22 more pages linked to the Infowars founder Alex Jones. And here’s an antitrust argument for blocking the social network’s plan to integrate its messaging services. (Recode, NYT Op-Ed)• Tesla has again cut the price of its cheapest Model 3, this time by $1,100. (CNBC)Best of the rest• Deutsche Bank says that the German economy is inching toward recession. (Bloomberg)• Blackstone is pulling back on plans to invest billions of dollars across Africa. It has also started a fight with an Italian media mogul. (WSJ, FT)• Some central banks have gold fever, and that might actually be sensible. (Breakingviews)• Walt Disney revealed its plans for a new service to rival Netflix. And the BBC and Discovery have joined forces for a streaming service focused on wildlife shows. (WSJ, FT)• The Federal Reserve will include high unemployment in its 2019 stress test scenarios for big banks. (WSJ)• Nissan and Renault aren’t done feuding in the wake of the Carlos Ghosn scandal. (WSJ)• Business leaders should revisit their yearbooks in light of the Ralph Northam scandal. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — North Korean hackers who have targeted American and European businesses for 18 months kept up their attacks last week even as President Trump was meeting with North Korea’s leader in Hanoi.The attacks, which include efforts to hack into banks, utilities and oil and gas companies, began in 2017, according to researchers at the cybersecurity company McAfee, a time when tensions between North Korea and the United States were flaring. But even though both sides have toned down their fiery threats and begun nuclear disarmament talks, the attacks persist.In 2017, Mr. Trump mocked Kim Jong-un as “rocket man” in a speech at the United Nations, while North Korea tested missiles capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to the United States. The attacks began soon after that. Though the two sides failed to reach an agreement last week, Mr. Trump struck a conciliatory tone toward his North Korean counterpart.The revelation of North Korea’s most recent hacking activity adds new details to the tensions surrounding the summit meeting last week, which ended abruptly without any deals. After their first meeting, about eight months earlier, North Korea had agreed to stop test-firing its missiles.“For 15 months, they haven’t tested weapons because of this negotiation but over those same 15 months they have not stopped their cyber activity,” said Victor Cha, the Korea chairman at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.With the help of an unnamed foreign law enforcement agency, the McAfee researchers gained access to one of the main computer servers used by the North Korean hackers to stage their attacks.The McAfee researchers said they watched, in real time, as the North Koreans attacked the computer networks of more than a hundred companies in the United States and around the globe. Last month, they expanded their targets to companies in Turkey, operating from a block of internet addresses traced to Namibia, one of the few countries that still maintains friendly relations with Pyongyang.“They are very, very, very active. It’s been nonstop,” said Raj Samani, McAfee’s chief scientist. “We’ve seen them hit in excess of 100 victims.”The exact motive of the attacks was not clear. They were well-researched and highly focused and, in many cases, aimed at engineers and executives who had broad access to their companies’ computer networks and intellectual property.McAfee, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., would not name the targets of the attacks and said it would make its finding public Sunday. But the firm did provide a map of North Korean hackers’ targets.The vast majority were in the United States, with the most frequent marks in Houston, an oil and gas hub, and New York, a finance hub. Other major targets included London, Madrid, Tokyo, Tel Aviv, Rome, Bangkok, Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong. Russia and mainland China, two countries that have maintained cordial relations with North Korea, were relatively untouched.North Korea, like the United States and many other countries, has long been accused of using hackers to further its national interests. In 2014, apparently in retaliation for a movie that mocked Mr. Kim, North Korean hackers hit Sony Pictures Entertainment. They destroyed Sony’s computer servers, paralyzed the studio’s operations and eventually leaked embarrassing emails from executives, in what would become a playbook for the Russian attacks and leaks of emails ahead of the 2016 elections.North Korean hackers have been tied to attacks on banks all around the world for financial gain — a rarity among government-affiliated hackers but not surprising for a country ravaged by economic sanctions. The “WannaCry” attack, which paralyzed more than 150 organizations around the globe in 2017, was also traced to North Korea.Mr. Cha, of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said cyberattacks remained the “third leg” of North Korea’s overall military strategy. “They’re never going to compete with the United States and South Korea soldier to soldier, tank for tank,” he said. “So they have moved to an asymmetric strategy of nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles and the third leg is cyber, that we really didn’t become aware of until Sony.”Since the Sony attack, McAfee’s researchers said North Korea’s hackers had significantly improved their capabilities: They are much better at hiding their tracks and researching their targets. And in many of the attacks McAfee witnessed, North Korean hackers had done their homework.They scoured the Microsoft-owned business site LinkedIn, for example, to find the profiles of industry job recruiters. They sent emails that appeared to come from those recruiters’ accounts, often in perfect English, promoting job opportunities.When a target clicked on an attachment or link in the email, the hackers gained access to the target’s computer.“The campaign was clearly really well prepared,” said Christiaan Beek, McAfee’s senior principal engineer and lead scientist. “It was very well researched and very targeted. They knew the individuals they were going for, and they drafted emails in such a way that their targets clicked on them.”The tools they used to implant malware in the recent attacks, which McAfee’s researchers called “Rising Sun” because of a reference in the code, were also starkly improved.Though the implants shared code with previous North Korean attacks, McAfee’s researchers said the hackers added new functions to lift data off infected machines. They also went to great lengths to delete their digital movements and encrypt their traffic.Mr. Beek and Mr. Samani said their team at McAfee was able to follow the hackers’ movements only because of their access to the North Koreans’ server. “The more code we saw, the more links we could see to more and more attacks,” Mr. Beek said.Considering other recent North Korean hacking campaigns that McAfee’s researchers have tracked — notably against the 2018 Winter Olympics and a separate spate of attacks on banks last year — Mr. Beek said North Korea showed no signs of slowing this activity.Security experts said the attacks would have to be addressed at some point if the two countries should continue talks.“Their very aggressive cyberactivity will have to be addressed in future discussions,” Mr. Cha said. “They are extremely active and, it’s clear to me at least, they’ve stopped missile testing because of the ongoing negotiations, but they’re not stopping in cyber.”Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the length of time between the first and second summit meetings between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader. It was about eight months, not 15.Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlrothAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeHi. I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news:Machines are more than ever controlled by software, not humans. Occasionally it goes fatally wrong.On March 10, 157 people died when an Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8 jet crashed. Five months earlier, another crash of the same model of airplane killed 189 people. There are indications that software intended to prevent the jets from stalling may have played a role in both accidents.Reporting by The New York Times suggests that the software didn’t receive a detailed review by the Federal Aviation Administration before it entered use: Under new rules, the agency delegated much of the responsibility to Boeing. If the software was at fault, and the problem did slip through the regulatory net, it raises questions about how safety-critical technology is vetted.Those questions will become more important over the next few years.A year ago, an Arizona woman was struck and killed by one of Uber’s autonomous cars. The vehicle’s autonomy systems failed to brake, as did the safety driver behind the wheel.Companies like Uber and Waymo, along with most of the auto industry, expect autonomous cars to proliferate over the next decade. Such advances aren’t limited to cars — they will further automate everything from air travel to food delivery. They are built on technologies, like artificial intelligence, that will make split-second decisions for humans.The Boeing software was designed to perform a simple task: Nudge the airplane’s nose down based on sensor readings if a stall was anticipated. As harder tasks are handed to software, the stakes rise.“As you create more advanced A.I. systems, the harm that can result from them failing can be really large,” said Jade Leung, a researcher at Oxford University’s Center for the Governance of Artificial Intelligence.But increasing the complexity of systems makes checking them more difficult. Hardware, from chips to special sensors, can be difficult to test. And it can be difficult for humans to understand how some A.I. algorithms make decisions.Ms. Leung said regulators needed to be more aware of tail-end risks — the highly unlikely but catastrophic events that could occur if something malfunctioned. That might mean introducing more conservative rules that relax as technology matures, ideally developed in tandem with technologists who understand deeply how the systems work.“Verifying the performance and safety of software is a really, really hard technical challenge,” Ms. Leung said. Nonetheless, it’s a challenge that has to be addressed.When a company spends billions on world-leading digital infrastructure, it naturally wants to wring every last cent of revenue out of it. That’s partly what is driving Google’s new Stadia gaming service, announced on Tuesday.Google’s pitch is straightforward: Think of it as Netflix for gaming. As long as they have a fast internet connection, users can pay a subscription to play high-definition games, akin to what they’d find on current top-end consoles, on any computer, phone or tablet.The company’s promise: that its cloud infrastructure makes that achievable. It will add racks of gaming-specific chips to existing server farms to essentially give people an on-demand, remote gaming computer. And Google officials believe that since most users are now so close to its pervasive hardware, lag won’t be a problem — an issue that held back earlier game streaming platforms, like the now-defunct OnLive.Google is not alone in the push into what some people see as the future of gaming. Microsoft had already announced that it planned to offer a trial of a similar service for Xbox consoles, computers and mobile devices this year. Amazon, which owns the game-watching service Twitch, is widely believed to be planning something similar, built on its Amazon Web Services cloud infrastructure.Those three companies happen to be the world’s largest cloud providers. It’s not surprising that they’re enamored of the idea of taking a slice of the $135 billion gaming industry, when all it could take is the flex of an existing muscle.About $500 million should buy a lot of computer. This past week, we found out how much. Writing for The Times, Don Clark explained what the Department of Energy would get for dropping that sum on a supercomputer:Lab officials predict it will be the first American machine to reach a milestone called “exascale” performance, surpassing a quintillion calculations per second. That’s roughly seven times the speed rating of the most powerful system built to date.The device, called Aurora, will be used to figure out everything from how drugs work to the impact of climate change. It’s also a useful indicator of the nation’s competitiveness in science and technology — or, at this point, whether it’s leading or lagging behind China. On that front, Mr. Clark reports that it has been a mixed bag for the United States:An IBM system called Summit, built for the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, took back the No. 1 position last year on a twice-yearly ranking of the world’s 500 most powerful systems — a spot held by China for five years. But China leads by another key measure: It accounted for 227 systems on the Top 500 list, compared with 109 for the United States.China is expected to have its own exascale supercomputer running as soon as 2020 — a full year before Aurora boots up.Google received its third antitrust fine from the European Union since 2017. This one, for 1.5 billion euros, or about $1.7 billion, was for imposing unfair terms on the search service it offers to other websites.Facebook will stop targeting some of its ads. It will no longer allow advertising of housing, jobs or credit to be aimed at those of a certain race, gender or age group.The Pentagon’s giant cloud contract has a one-man holdup. Deap Ubhi, a little-known entrepreneur, is at the center of a legal battle between Amazon and Oracle over the $10 billion project.Take a look at an early iPhone prototype. It’s red, about the size of an old computer motherboard and helped engineers to program the first breakthrough smartphone.A.I. researchers could give computers a little more credit. Rich Sutton, a pioneer of some of today’s most effective A.I. techniques, argues that a “bitter lesson” in artificial intelligence is that “the only thing that matters in the long run is the leveraging of computation.”Why is there still relatively little tech regulation? “Lawmakers are reluctant to disrupt the enormous wealth creation machine that technology has turned out to be,” according to the security expert Bruce Schneier.Screen sharing can be an easy route to professional humiliation. But don’t worry, the aftermath usually isn’t as bad as you might think. (Even so, here are some tips for avoiding future catastrophes.)Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bynews analysisMany companies invest in automation because the tax code encourages it, not because robots are more productive.By Eduardo PorterMr. Porter is an economics writer for The Times.When Bill Gates floated the idea of imposing a tax on robots a couple of years ago, Lawrence Summers, a former top economic adviser to President Barack Obama, called the Microsoft co-founder “profoundly misguided.” How do you even define a robot to tax it? And taxing innovation is a sure way to make a country poorer. Europe has also rejected the idea. In 2017 the European Parliament soundly defeated a draft motion, proposed by its committee on legal affairs, that recommended considering a tax on the owners of robots to fund retraining programs for workers displaced by the machines and shore up the finances of their social security system. And yet properly constructed, a tax on automation may not be as destructive as it sounds. South Korea, the most robotized country in the world, instituted a robot tax of sorts in 2018 when it reduced the tax deduction on business investments in automation. There are two sound arguments for taxing robots.  The easiest is this: Governments need the money. In the United States, income taxes account for half of the $3 trillion collected every year by the Internal Revenue Service; payroll taxes account for another third.Imagine that the fears about robots taking over jobs actually come true. Two years ago, the McKinsey Global Institute found that the job functions that are “most susceptible to automation” in the United States account for 51 percent of the activities in the economy and $2.7 trillion worth of wages. The institute estimates “half of today’s work activities could be automated by 2055.” If that happens, hundreds of billions of tax dollars would be lost every year.And at the same time that the rise of robots shrinks government tax revenue, the fallout from automation will place more demands on government services. The United States will probably need more money to retrain workers bumped from their jobs by automation, to give them a shot at a new one. Welfare rolls could grow, as millions of workers are displaced to the bottom end of the service economy, where wages are low and robots are scarce. To afford any kind of government services in the robot era, governments will have to find something else to tax. Why not the robots themselves?The case for taxing robots is stronger when you consider that a lot of automation these days is not deployed to enhance economic productivity. Instead, many businesses are investing in automation simply because the tax code is urging them to do so.The purpose of taxing robots is not simply to stop them from killing jobs. It is to level the playing field, to ensure that investments in automation raise productivity. “The tax system incentivizes automation even in cases where it is not otherwise efficient,” wrote Ryan Abbott and Bret Bogenschneider of the University of Surrey School of Law in Britain, in an analysis of tax policy toward automation in the United States and other rich countries. “The vast majority of tax revenues are now derived from labor income, so firms avoid taxes by eliminating employees.”Daron Acemoglu, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, explains that automation often produces benefits of dubious value to the business itself. More important, he suggests that the investment in technologies designed to replace workers has come at the expense of alternative investments that might find more productive uses for human labor. This may help explain the sluggishness in overall productivity growth across the economy. One powerful reason that businesses deploy so many robots, despite their sometimes questionable contribution to the bottom line, is that automation is subsidized. “Subsidies induce firms to substitute capital for labor even when this is not socially cost-saving, though it is privately beneficial because of the subsidy,” Professor Acemoglu and his co-author, Pascual Restrepo, wrote. The tax subsidies to robots are varied. For starters, machines don’t incur payroll taxes, which are used to fund Social Security and Medicare. For every worker replaced by a robot, the employer saves on payroll taxes. The federal tax code and many state governments allow companies to use “accelerated depreciation” for capital investments, which allows them to deduct the cost of their robots faster than they could deduct the wage of the payroll of the workers they replace.This means that eliminating the tax break for robots would not hurt economic growth. It would, in fact, improve economic efficiency. By subsidizing capital investment, the government is encouraging businesses to use capital when they otherwise would not, to replace workers with machines. That might be rational for the individual business reaping the tax benefits. But as Professor Acemoglu put it, across the economy, this kind of spending on automation “shows up as a productivity loss.”What’s more, curbing businesses’ pumped-up enthusiasm for robots might help mitigate the broader social costs of automation, which has flushed so many workers into unproductive occupations where cheap labor still holds an edge and knocked many more out of the labor force entirely.What is the best way to change the tax incentives for robots? One solution would be to disallow accelerated depreciation for investments in automation. Professors Abbott and Bogenschneider propose that businesses with high levels of worker automation could have their tax depreciation automatically reduced beyond a certain threshold.Businesses that use robots to replace workers could also be required to cover the payroll taxes of workers knocked out by automation, as proposed by the technology analyst William Meisel. A tax calibrated according to the ratio of a company’s profit to its employee compensation could match the wage taxes avoided by automation. Companies deploying robots could also be required to pay some kind of fee, just as employers that lay off workers must subsequently pay more into the unemployment insurance system.In practice, taxing automation is likely to be difficult. Taxing robots would, first of all, require defining what robots are. Would a robot tax also apply to, say, machine tools? Regardless of where we drew the line, a robot tax could distort investment decisions in other ways.Nonetheless, there is a wide gap between the way that the tax code treats human labor and the way it treats automation. The hole could be filled by reducing tax subsidies on capital investment altogether. Taxes on labor could also be reduced. We may not want to tax innovation, but there is no reason to subsidize investments that are designed merely to take away jobs. At the very least, a tax on robots would force businesses to think harder about when and where to deploy them.Eduardo Porter, an economics writer for The Times, is the author of a forthcoming book about race and the American social contract.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Eduardo Porter joined The Times in 2004 from The Wall Street Journal. He has reported about economics and other matters from Mexico City, Tokyo, London and São Paulo.    @portereduardo AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeHi. I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.There is little as fashionable in 2019 as the desire to curb Big Tech’s power. But knowing how far regulators should go in putting limits on Silicon Valley’s largest companies isn’t straightforward.At one extreme, there are calls to break up Big Tech.  Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines during the week when she called for just that. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, argued that companies shouldn’t offer their own products on platforms they controlled (like Apple’s selling apps on its App Store — something Spotify called out to European regulators on Wednesday). She also said she would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions, such as Facebook’s takeovers of Instagram and WhatsApp.Her pitch isn’t perfect, as The New York Times’s Kevin Roose pointed out — it’s too generic, misses easy wins and overlooks some big issues. But it is a bold, inspiring rally cry for Big Tech’s biggest critics.At the other end of the spectrum: tech companies. Ideally, the likes of Facebook and Google would love to perpetually operate in the lightly regulated world that helped them grow so quickly. But even Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, acknowledged that it was “inevitable that there will be some regulation” when he testified to the House Energy and Commerce Committee in April.There’s plenty of room between those extremes. Take, for example, a report published Wednesday by the British government, which called for an overhaul of antitrust policies for Big Tech. Its main proposal: that a new regulator identify companies with “strategic market status,” then block some activities — such as promoting their own products or services in search results over those belonging to competitors (hello, Google!).That, the report’s authors say, is a “more pro-business and pro-consumer solution” than “changing antitrust law to drive breakup” of businesses.So who’s right? Mr. Zuckerberg, at least when he says regulatory intervention is inevitable. There’s strong bipartisan support for such regulation. As for where a line should be drawn, that’s harder to say.Breaking up big companies isn’t easy: It’s expensive and takes a long time. And it doesn’t always go to plan. The last notable attempt to do so, when a judge ruled two decades ago that Microsoft be cleaved for having violated antitrust law, was overturned on appeal. So Ms. Warren could have her work cut out for her.But it may ultimately become a question of balancing ambition with need. Is it better to gamble on breaking up big companies, or guarantee that new rules curb some of their behavior? That’s something that lawmakers are going to have to wrestle with.When OpenAI was founded three years ago, it had a huge goal: to build artificial intelligence software that was as capable as the human brain. Its founders said that because it was a nonprofit with noble ambitions — it had $1 billion in funding from backers to pay its way — the public could trust it to build that so-called general artificial intelligence.Only, $1 billion doesn’t go far with goals like that. Huge computing resources and big salaries to attract talent burn through cash. Actually, it turns out, some profits might be useful.So, Wired reported, Open AI announced that it was changing its business model. To keep up with Facebook and Google, it created a OpenAI L.P., a company that can take money from investors that need to return a profit, like venture funds. That will make it easier to raise funds. Down the line, it might monetize some of the technology it develops. But the company decided to cap the returns that investors will see — to $100 for every dollar invested.One way to think of that figure is that OpenAI deems a 100-times return to be an ethical margin on building a general A.I. — enough to make it a feasible endeavor, but not so much as to tar it with the Big Tech brush. That reasoning clearly holds if you inhabit Silicon Valley. But it will be interesting to see if that profit cap is enough to put everyone at ease.On March 12, 1989, Tim Berners-Lee proposed an idea for linking digital files that his boss, Mike Sendall, called “vague but exciting.” It ultimately became the World Wide Web, and 30 years later we’re left with much to love — and hate — about its existence.At an event at London’s Science Museum on Tuesday to mark the web’s passage into its fourth decade, Mr. Berners-Lee was asked what it might look like in another 30 years. Here’s what he said:■ “It’s not, I think, for us to try and guess.”■ “Look at what’s happened over the last 30 years. The web has changed really dramatically, and a lot of that we couldn’t have predicted.”■ “What we can do is we can say what web we want.”■ “We want a web which is open. We want a web which is royalty-free. We want a web which is discrimination-free.”Worthy goals. And in an article he wrote this past week, Mr. Berners-Lee laid out steps that may be required to ensure they happen:■ “Governments must translate laws and regulations for the digital age. They must ensure markets remain competitive, innovative and open.”■ “Companies must do more to ensure their pursuit of short-term profit is not at the expense of human rights, democracy, scientific fact or public safety.”■ “Platforms and products must be designed with privacy, diversity and security in mind. “■ “And most important of all, citizens must hold companies and governments accountable.”Thirty years on, Mr. Sendall’s analysis might apply equally well to this proposal, too.Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers. According to Businessweek, Mr. Musk, the Tesla chief executive, set out to destroy one employee who leaked details about raw materials wastage at the company.How does Google pay off executives accused of misconduct? Handsomely: Two shared a total of $135 million, according to details that emerged from a lawsuit during the week.Who will fund the next wave of tech start-ups? That’ll be the millionaires who are created when companies like Airbnb and Uber go public.You should care about TikTok. You might never use it, but it could reshape social media as you know it.Scientists dropped a smartphone into a blender. Because that, apparently, is the best way to work out how much cobalt, gold and other substances are in there.How to disappear (almost) completely: A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps to going dark while staying online.Silicon Valley wants to build a monument. To Silicon Valley, obviously.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBeing overwhelmed is no excuse. It’s hard to be good at your job if you’re bad at responding to people. By Adam GrantDr. Grant is an organizational psychologist.I’m really sorry I didn’t say hi, make eye contact or acknowledge your presence in any way when you waved to me in the hallway the other day. It’s nothing personal. I just have too many people trying to greet me these days, and I can’t respond to everyone.That sounds ridiculous, right? You would never snub a colleague trying to strike up a conversation. Yet when you ignore a personal email, that’s exactly what you’ve done: digital snubbery.Yes, we’re all overwhelmed with email. One recent survey suggested that the average American’s inbox has 199 unread messages. But volume isn’t an excuse for not replying. Ignoring email is an act of incivility.“I’m too busy to answer your email” really means “Your email is not a priority for me right now.” That’s a popular justification for neglecting your inbox: It’s full of other people’s priorities. But there’s a growing body of evidence that if you care about being good at your job, your inbox should be a priority.When researchers compiled a huge database of the digital habits of teams at Microsoft, they found that the clearest warning sign of an ineffective manager was being slow to answer emails. Responding in a timely manner shows that you are conscientious — organized, dependable and hardworking. And that matters. In a comprehensive analysis of people in hundreds of occupations, conscientiousness was the single best personality predictor of job performance. (It turns out that people who are rude online tend to be rude offline, too.)I’m not saying you have to answer every email. Your brain is not just sitting there waiting to be picked. If senders aren’t considerate enough to do their homework and ask a question you’re qualified to answer, you don’t owe them anything back.How do you know if an email you’ve received — or even more important, one you’re considering writing — doesn’t deserve a response? After all, sending an inappropriate email can be as rude as ignoring a polite one. I have a few general rules. You should not feel obliged to respond to strangers asking you to share their content on social media, introduce them to your more famous colleagues, spend hours advising them on something they’ve created or “jump on a call this afternoon.” If someone you barely know emails you a dozen times a month and is always asking you to do something for him, you can ignore those emails guilt-free. Along these lines, the last time I made the mistake of admitting in this newspaper that I believe in being responsive to emails, I got a deluge of messages. One reader even wrote, “I just wanted to test you, to find out if it’s true.” So this time, let me be clear: I’m not writing this article as a personal note to your inbox, so it doesn’t require a personal reply to mine.We all need to set boundaries. People shouldn’t be forced to answer endless emails outside work hours — which is why some companies have policies against checking emails on nights and weekends. Some people I know tell their colleagues they’ll be on email from 9 to 10 a.m. and 2 to 3 p.m. each day, but not in between. If it’s not an emergency, no one should expect you to respond right away.Spending hours a day answering emails can stand in the way of getting other things done. One recent study shows that on days when managers face heavy email demands, they make less progress toward their goals and end up being less proactive in communicating their vision and setting expectations.But that same study shows that email load takes a toll only if it’s not central to your job. And let’s face it: These days email is central to most jobs. What we really need to do is to make email something we think carefully about before sending, and therefore feel genuinely bad ignoring.Whatever boundaries you choose, don’t abandon your inbox altogether. Not answering emails today is like refusing to take phone calls in the 1990s or ignoring letters in the 1950s. Email is not household clutter and you’re not Marie Kondo. Ping!Your inbox isn’t just a list of other people’s tasks. It’s where other people help you do your job. It allows you to pose questions with a few keystrokes instead of spending the whole day on the phone, and it’s vital to gathering information that you can’t easily find in a Google search.“My inbox is other people’s priorities” bothers me as a social scientist, but also as a human being. Your priorities should include other people and their priorities. It’s common courtesy to engage with people who are thoughtful in reaching out.This isn’t just about doing unto others as you’d have them do unto you. Clearing out your inbox can jump-start your own productivity. One set of experiments showed that if you’re behind on a task, you’ll finish it faster if you’re busy, because you know you need to use your time efficiently. As a writer, I like to start the morning by answering a few emails — it helps me get into a productive rhythm of deep work. If you think you have too many emails, maybe you just don’t have enough.Everyone occasionally misses an email. But if you’re habitually “too busy” to answer legitimate emails, there’s a problem with your process. It sends a signal that you’re disorganized — or that you just don’t care.If you’re just hopelessly behind on your inbox, at least set up an auto-reply giving people another channel where they can reach you. A Slack channel. Twitter. A phone number. Post-it notes. Carrier pigeon.Remember that a short reply is kinder and more professional than none at all. If you have too much on your plate, come clean: “I don’t have the bandwidth to add this.” If it’s not your expertise, just say so: “Sorry, this isn’t in my wheelhouse.” And if you want to say no, just say “no.”We can all learn from the writer E.B. White, who, in response to a 1956 letter asking him to join a committee, responded with two short sentences. The first: a thank-you for the invitation. The second: “I must decline, for secret reasons.”Adam Grant, an organizational psychologist at Wharton, is the author of “Originals” and the host of the TED podcast “WorkLife.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTo own a slice of two of the hottest tech start-ups going public, investors will have to give up equal voting power. By Peter EavisThe initial public offerings of Lyft and Pinterest will give investors the chance to buy into young, fast-growing companies led by founders with ambitious visions.But to get a piece of that action, investors will have to give up something big: an equal say in how the companies are run.Lyft, a ride-share company, and Pinterest, a social media network, will deprive their new shareholders of full voting rights when they go public in the coming days and weeks. Both companies plan to issue shares to a small number of insiders that have far more voting power than the shares everyone else will own.The use of two classes of shares has become increasingly popular among Silicon Valley start-ups going public. But such share structures have also prompted a backlash. Big investors, corporate-governance experts and even some tech executives warn that the issuance of super-voting shares undermines the system of accountability that has long been a pillar of public stock markets.Still, the Lyft and Pinterest offerings show that the desire to retain control after going public remains strong.Both Pinterest and Lyft are issuing two classes of stock, one that gives its holders 20 votes each and another, owned by outside investors, that will have one vote each.In Lyft’s case, the two founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will control 49 percent of the company’s voting power, while holding just under 5 percent of the overall shares. Pinterest has not yet disclosed numbers needed to do a similar breakdown. Google opted for a dual-class structure as it went public in 2004, when it was fairly unusual for tech companies to do so. Facebook issued shares that gave control to its founders in its 2012 I.P.O. Snap, a social media company, sold shares to the public in 2017 with no voting rights, which prompted an outcry. But that hasn’t slowed their adoption. Last year, nearly two-thirds of technology companies going public had more than one class of shares, compared with a quarter five years earlier, according to data from Dealogic.And it’s not just technology companies that have embraced maintaining control. Levi Strauss, which went public last week, has shares that put most of the voting power in the hands of its founder’s descendants. And some media companies, The New York Times Company included, have special shares that give control to their holders.Uber may buck this trend, though. The ride-sharing company is preparing to make its public market debut this year and is expected to do so with one class of stock.As owners of a company, shareholders expect to have some sway over management. Full voting rights give them a greater voice in who’s on the board and how much executives get paid, and on big decisions, like whether to sell the company. Diminishing public holders’ voting rights can give insiders too much power and insulate executives who make poor decisions. Strong boards, as well as the looming threat of activist investors, do a lot to assure top executives are responsive, says Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online real estate brokerage. “The feeling that I serve at the pleasure of the board, that it is a privilege to work at Redfin, is fundamental to this company and the best of business culture,” he said.It’s hard to say definitively whether companies with unequal voting rights perform better or worse over time. Google has grown strongly over the years, but so have Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, which don’t give special control to insiders. Viacom’s stock has done poorly while CBS’s has done quite well; Sumner M. Redstone, with the help of his daughter, Shari Redstone, controls both companies through voting shares. Much also depends on the type of control a company grants. Robert J. Jackson Jr., a commissioner at the Securities and Exchange Commission, has cited analysis showing that companies that give control to insiders in perpetuity ended up with lower valuations on the stock market than those that planned to get rid of unequal voting rights after a certain period.The question of control may become crucial when a company gets into trouble. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, faltered in his response to abuse of the company’s network and data. Shareholder advisory groups last year pressed for changes that they said would improve governance, including setting up a special risk committee on the board, but they did not get the necessary votes.  Mr. Zuckerberg enjoys the protection of powerful voting shares. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment.Perhaps the biggest is that they can shield executives from pressures to bolster a company’s performance in the near term and give them more freedom to make investments that take time to pay off. Google has made that argument.Of course, it is possible for companies that don’t issue special controlling shares to shrug off the “short-termism” of the stock market. Amazon has plowed significant sums into new businesses for years and is among the most valuable companies in the world. But companies at a vulnerable stage in their development may benefit from giving control to their leaders as they pursue their visions for their companies. Lyft, for instance, is planning big investments in self-driving vehicle technology, and the company’s stock may suffer if they don’t immediately bear fruit. And though Facebook’s controlling shares may have helped set the stage for its stumbles, the arrangement may also have helped the company respond. Since the scandals, Facebook has increased its spending to safeguard its network. Wall Street analysts have at times questioned the need for such costs, but Mr. Zuckerberg can mostly ignore them because of the voting power in his hands.Some efforts to address the use of high-voting shares have focused on how long these classes of shares exist. Critics oppose arrangements that allow the holders to keep control until they die, or those that allow the shares to be passed on to descendants. These create what Mr. Jackson, the S.E.C. commissioner, has called “corporate royalty.”Instead of granting long-term or perpetual control, a few companies have adopted structures that convert controlling shares into ordinary shares after a certain number of years. But this approach has failed to gain traction. In the three years through 2018, only 29 percent of the I.P.O.s with special controlling shares had a provision that allow their superior voting power to expire after a certain period, according to a New York Times analysis of data provided by the Council of Institutional Investors, a group that has criticized unequal voting rights.Lyft’s controlling shares won’t lose any of their power over time, but the company has attempted to bolster its corporate governance by having an independent chairman. Other companies have taken this step, including Snap, but it hasn’t been enough to satisfy critics of unequal share classes. “A lot of companies think an independent chair is a good idea, but is that person going to last forever?” Mr. Jackson said, “Is there anything to stop them from removing the independent chair?”Pinterest has a seven-year time limit, but it only kicks in if the holders of the high-voting shares own less than half the shares they had just before I.P.O. “I would not count that as a true, time-based sunset,” said Andrew Winden, a fellow at Stanford Law School Rock Center for Corporate Governance, referring to phaseout provisions. Peter Eavis is a New York based reporter covering companies and markets. Before coming to the Times in 2012, he worked at The Wall Street Journal.   @uwsgeezer AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Natasha SingerEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Greetings, I’m Natasha Singer, your resident privacy reporter. And I’m writing to you from wintry New York City as the government shutdown increases financial pressure on federal workers and the tech elites jet off to Davos, Switzerland, to hobnob at the World Economic Forum.For the last few years, the forum has been heralding the “Fourth Industrial Revolution.” That’s the idea that today’s digital innovations are generating entire new industries — in much the way electricity enabled the mass production of the Model T Ford in the early 20th century.But a provocative new book, “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism,” by Shoshana Zuboff, a professor emerita at the Harvard Business School, offers a more sobering counternarrative.Published on Tuesday, the book argues that digital services developed by the likes of Google and Facebook should not be viewed as the latest iteration of industrialization. Instead, Dr. Zuboff writes, they represent a new and problematic market form that trades in predicting and influencing human behavior.“Surveillance capitalism has taken human experience, specifically private human experience, and unilaterally claimed it as something to be bought and sold in the marketplace,” Dr. Zuboff told me during a visit to The Times’s office. “This new kind of marketplace trades in behavioral futures. It’s like a form of derivative. But it’s about us.”Yet most of us are not aware that platforms like Google and Facebook may track and analyze our every search, location, like, video, photo, post and punctuation mark the better to try to sway us, she said.In fact, a new study on Facebook from the Pew Research Center illustrates how opaque this behavior marketplace can be to consumers.The study, my colleague Sapna Maheswari writes, reported that about three-fourths of Facebook users were unaware that the social network maintained lists of their personal interests, such as their political leanings, for advertisers. And about half of users who looked at their “ad preferences” — the Facebook pages displaying these details — said they were uncomfortable with the company’s creating lists of categories about them.The technologies that power the behavior speculation market, of course, have spread far beyond online ads.They enable auto insurers to surveil drivers and offer discounts based on their driving performance. They allow workplace wellness programs to charge higher health insurance premiums to employees who decline to wear fitness trackers. They helped Kremlin-linked groups mount political influence campaigns on Facebook (although, as my colleague John Herrman pointed out this past week, we have yet to learn how effective those campaigns were).The flash-trading in human behavioral data was not inevitable.In her book, Dr. Zuboff describes how Google, in its early days, used the keywords that people typed in to improve its search engine even as it paid scant attention to the collateral data — like users’ keyword phrasing, click patterns and spellings — that came with it. Pretty soon, however, Google began harvesting this surplus information, along with other details like users’ web-browsing activities, to infer their interests and target them with ads.The model was later adopted by Facebook.The companies’ pivot — from serving to surveilling their users — pushed Google and Facebook to harvest more and more data, Dr. Zuboff writes. In doing so, the companies sometimes bypassed privacy settings or made it difficult for users to opt out of data-sharing.“We saw these digital services were free, and we thought, you know, ‘We’re making a reasonable trade-off with giving them valuable data,’” Dr. Zuboff told me. “But now that’s reversed. They’ve decided that we’re free, that they can take our experience for free and translate it into behavioral data. And so we are just the source of raw material.”Of course, tech companies tend to bristle at the word “surveillance.” They associate it with government spying on individuals — not with their own snooping on users and trying to sway them at scale.“When organizations do surveillance, people don’t have control over that,” Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief, said in April during a Senate hearing on Cambridge Analytica, the voter-profiling company that improperly harvested the data of millions of Facebook users. “But on Facebook, everything that you share, you have control over.”Surveillance, however, simply means observation or supervision, often with the intent of channeling the surveilled in a particular direction. As Dr. Zuboff’s book points out, that is at the core of Facebook’s panopticon of a business model.In other news:■ Microsoft pledged nearly $500 million in loans to help build affordable housing in the Seattle area. The money is “the most ambitious effort by a tech company to directly address the inequality that has spread” in its backyard, Karen Weise writes.■ Facebook is facing continued pressure to more aggressively counter the spread of divisive disinformation and user manipulation on its platform, Adam Satariano writes. The company said Thursday that it had identified two new Russian-linked misinformation campaigns. “Up to 1,200 people expressed interest in attending one of the roughly 190 events organized by those behind the fake pages,” the article notes. “Facebook couldn’t say whether any of the events had taken place.”■ Legislators must find a new way to regulate social media, Natasha Tusikov, a criminology professor, and Blayne Haggart, a political-science professor, argue in The Conversation. One suggestion, they write: “It’s time to consider noncommercial ownership of social-media entities — including nonprofit or some form of public ownership.”■ And finally, how might countries grapple with a global labor market in which there are few protections for many digital workers? Read the opinion piece in the New Statesman by Mark Graham, a professor at the Oxford Internet Institute.Natasha Singer covers data privacy and tech accountability for The New York Times. She also teaches a tech ethics course at the School of The New York Times, The Times’s pre-college program. Follow her on Twitter: @natashanyt.Interested in All Things Tech? Get the Bits newsletter delivered to your inbox weekly for the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Attorney General Xavier Becerra added one more lawsuit yesterday to the several dozen he’s filed against the Trump administration. This one aims to block moves that would effectively strip millions of dollars in federal funding from reproductive health care providers that perform abortions or abortion referrals.For those still keeping count, the total is now 47. It’s a figure that has placed Mr. Becerra squarely at the center of California’s resistance, along with Gov. Gavin Newsom, who’s also taken rhetorical aim at the president’s policies on immigration and the environment.Last night, the police detained a longtime Sacramento Bee reporter and arrested dozens of demonstrators protesting District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert’s announcement that she wouldn’t criminally prosecute two officers who shot and killed Stephon Clark, a 22-year-old black man whom they said they believed had a gun, but was unarmed.Mr. Clark’s family and activists called on Mr. Becerra — who, as I wrote yesterday, wields considerable power to pick his battles — to file charges instead, or face political consequences.Unless you work in the field, it’s easy to forget that all around the state, scientists are working to solve the universe’s toughest puzzles, or hurtling toward world-changing discoveries.Recently, I talked to a team of researchers at U.C. Irvine and U.C. Riverside who managed to make a finding that could be world-changing — and it’s kind of terrifying.It’s possible to record the subtle sounds of a DNA synthesis machine working in a lab and then reverse-engineer whatever genetic materials the machine is making.In other words, it’s possible to hack such a machine by, in effect, listening to it.The idea for the project, said Mohammad Al Faruque, an associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science at U.C.I., stemmed from his previous work stealing blueprints for things printed by a 3-D printer.“If you can eavesdrop on a machine, you can understand what it’s making,” he said. “And with the 3-D printer, we demonstrated that.”But if what you’re stealing is a genetic blueprint, the stakes are much higher. It could be health information or pharmaceuticals — or the recipe for a biological weapon.Philip Brisk, a U.C. Riverside associate professor of computer science and engineering, said that because Microsoft was working on DNA data storage, the finding could have implications for information security.And William Grover, a U.C. Riverside assistant professor of bioengineering, said that while not everybody has a 3-D printer or a DNA synthesizer, lots of people have Alexas or Google Homes.“Everybody makes noises in their day-to-day business, which can be vulnerable to side-channel attacks,” he said. And medical machines like the ones in health care offices also make noise.Still, before you get the urge to wrap your house in tinfoil, team members said the research was encouraging.First, Mr. Al Faruque said, as engineering as a discipline undergoes “a paradigm shift,” research is the result of a new kind of collaboration that will be necessary to solve increasingly multifaceted problems. The team, for example, needed bioengineering experts as well as computer engineers.“We had the right grouping of players,” he said.Second, doing research that highlights vulnerabilities makes it possible to design products with solutions in mind.Mr. Brisk said that right now, cost is often the top priority in designing labs and products. But this kind of research, he said, forces designers and engineers to pay attention to security, too.“You could optimize so that there’s less information bouncing around,” he said. “I’m sure the right type of engineering expertise exists somewhere.”(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Thousands of students and teachers returned to school in Oakland on Monday after a deal to give teachers a raise and improve some school conditions ended a seven-day strike. But protests continued yesterday as district officials cut $21.75 million from the budget for things like administrative jobs and restorative justice programs. [The East Bay Times]• A year ago at the Conservative Political Action Conference, the political right’s annual extravaganza, Google hosted a lavish hospitality suite and Facebook passed out emoji cookies. This year, big tech is a boogeyman and its representatives are nowhere to be found. [The New York Times]• The state Supreme Court handed down an important pension decision yesterday. All sides are claiming a win. Here’s what that means. [CALmatters]• San Francisco’s mayor, London Breed, wants the city’s largest and newest homeless service center to be built at a port-owned property with a great view. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Federal officials have charged a Long Beach man with causing an explosion at an Aliso Viejo spa last year that killed the man’s ex-girlfriend. [NBC News]• At the 40th anniversary of San Francisco mainstay Zuni Café, the restaurant still serves a sublime burger and a killer margarita. Check out recipes. [The New York Times]• “When I started, the biggest challenge was not to be afraid of cutting a Napoleon wrong.” Here’s how Porto’s Bakery employees are getting ready to open a new West Covina store. (It’s bound to be crazy busy.) [Los Angeles Daily News]• A LeBron James-led team might not make the playoffs. [The New York Times]• Luke Perry, who created a teen heartthrob archetype on “Beverly Hills, 90210,” died yesterday after having a stroke. He was 52. Tributes flowed. [The New York Times]Sacramento has an “active turkey season.” It’s right now. And according to The Sacramento Bee, the fowl are strutting all over town.Wild turkeys near the Capitol. Wild turkeys in the street. A wild turkey enamored with its own reflection at the California Department of Social Services building. Wild turkeys pecking at shiny cars.And lest you think that they’re friendly creatures, a spokeswoman for the city said they’re not.“Sometimes they’re nasty, they’ll chase you.”Still, there are things you can do if you run across a rafter of turkeys. Mostly, you should just leave them alone. If they won’t leave you alone, a spray of water or a loud noise might send them waddling away.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — European authorities on Wednesday fined Google 1.5 billion euros for antitrust violations in the online advertising market, continuing its efforts to rein in the world’s biggest technology companies.The fine, worth about $1.7 billion, is the third against Google by the European Union since 2017, reinforcing the region’s position as the world’s most aggressive watchdog of an industry with an increasingly powerful role in society and the global economy. The regulators said Google had violated antitrust rules by imposing unfair terms on companies that used its search bar on their websites in Europe.Europe’s regulatory approach was once criticized as unfairly focusing on technology companies from the United States, but is now viewed as a potential global model as governments question the influence of Silicon Valley. Europe is at the forefront of a broad debate about the role of tech platforms like Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google, and whether their size and power hurt competition.With the announcement on Wednesday, the European fines against Google total roughly 8.2 billion euros, or $9.3 billion. But the bloc has not received any of the money yet; Google is appealing the earlier decisions, and is mulling whether to appeal the most recent ruling.“Google has cemented its dominance in online search adverts and shielded itself from competitive pressure by imposing anticompetitive contractual restrictions on third-party websites,” Margrethe Vestager, Europe’s top antitrust watchdog, said in a statement. “This is illegal under E.U. antitrust rules.”The fine centers on contracts that license the use of Google’s search bar on websites run by newspapers, blogs, travel services and other companies. European regulators said the operators of the third-party websites using Google’s search bar had been required to display a disproportionate number of text ads from Google’s own advertising services over competing digital advertising companies.The practice, regulators said, undercut competitors, such as Microsoft and Yahoo, that were trying to challenge Google in search.“There was no reason for Google to include these restrictive clauses in its contracts, except to keep its rivals out of the market,” Ms. Vestager said at a news conference in Brussels. She said the ruling covered 2006 to 2016, when Google stopped the practices.Europe’s actions against Silicon Valley are influencing policy debates around the world, but some critics question the overall effectiveness of the penalties.The European Union spent a decade investigating Google, a slow and deliberate process, during which the company’s business and power continued to grow. Annual revenue at Google’s parent company, Alphabet, reached $137 billion last year, compared with $22 billion a decade earlier. On Wednesday, Google shares rose 2 percent.The Google cases highlight a larger question policymakers face in overseeing the digital economy.“As it becomes increasingly clear that antitrust fines or after-the-fact remedies are not enough to bring vibrant competition to the market, governments will need to move to deeper tech sector regulation to remedy problems,” said Gene Kimmelman, a former antitrust official in the Justice Department who is now president of Public Knowledge, a consumer advocacy group. He suggested rules preventing tech platforms like Google from favoring their own services.In the United States, where there has been limited regulation of tech companies, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, has made breaking up Google and other tech giants a priority in her presidential campaign. This week, Representative David Cicilline, Democrat of Rhode Island and chairman of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law, called for a federal antitrust investigation of Facebook.In response to the ruling on Wednesday, Google said, “Healthy, thriving markets are in everyone’s interest.”“We’ve already made a wide range of changes to our products to address the commission’s concerns,” Kent Walker, Google’s senior vice president for global affairs, said in a statement. “Over the next few months, we’ll be making further updates to give more visibility to rivals in Europe.”The case is the last of three investigations the European Commission has pursued against Google, which has headquarters in Mountain View, Calif.Last year, Ms. Vestager fined Google a record €4.34 billion for using its ownership of the Android mobile operating system to unfairly undercut rivals in the mobile phone market, a decision that also forced the company to change how it bundled its apps on smartphones. In 2017, the company was fined 2.4 billion euros for unfairly favoring its own shopping services over those of rivals.The two previous rulings have not had a big impact on Google’s financial health, but they have forced the tech giant to adjust some business practices.After the Android ruling last year, Google for the first time began charging handset makers to pre-install Gmail, Google Maps and other popular applications for Android devices in the European Union.Perhaps in an attempt to head off additional inquiries, Google announced a number of further changes to services across Europe on Wednesday, after rivals complained that it continued to benefit from anticompetitive business practices.For the first time, the company said, it will ask Android phone users in Europe if they want to switch to a web browser and search engine not owned by Google. To allow more competition when customers shop with Google, it will give other shopping sites more prominence in its search results, the company also said. Google said it would do the same with local search queries in Europe, such as when a person searches for a restaurant, a move that could help companies like TripAdvisor and OpenTable.Outside of its review of practices by Google and others, the European Union has adopted tough new privacy rules that many countries outside Europe now view as a template. Regulators here have also investigated tech companies’ tax practices and called for more scrutiny of artificial intelligence.The decision on Wednesday against Google will be one of the final major antitrust rulings in the five-year term of Ms. Vestager, whose crackdown on Silicon Valley while competition commissioner has made her a minor celebrity in the often-staid world of European politics.Ms. Vestager has expressed openness to serving another term as the bloc’s top antitrust watchdog, but she is also considered a contender to become president of the European Commission, the most powerful executive position in the European Union. Her future will depend in part on the outcome of European parliamentary elections in May.Even with her possible departure, pressure on the technology industry is not easing.The European Union is expected to adopt new copyright regulations as early as next week that would impose restrictions to stop unlicensed content, like music and videos, from being shared on tech platforms like Google and Facebook. Another proposal tries to block the sharing of hate speech and extremist content, a policy that some critics say could lead to censorship.At the same time, regulators across Europe are pursuing several lines of inquiry.Ms. Vestager’s office announced last year that Amazon was under investigation for its treatment of independent sellers who use its website to reach customers.Apple, which in 2016 was ordered to pay Ireland $14.5 billion in back taxes, is now under scrutiny for its App Store policies. Facebook is facing separate inquiries related to its business practices and handling of user data. Google’s advertising practices are also being monitored by privacy advocates who are urging regulators to begin a new investigation for violating privacy rights.“Businesses and consumers, they depend on platforms to get the best out of digitization,” Ms. Vestager said. “Illegal behavior in these cases is a very serious affair.”An earlier version of this article misstated the year when Apple was ordered to pay $14.5 billion in back taxes to Ireland. That ruling was in 2016, not 2017.AdvertisementForty years of boxing matches — as many as 55,000 individual fights — have been painstakingly preserved in a video archive. In the age of YouTube and cloud storage, is it worth anything?CreditCreditVincent Tullo for The New York TimesSupported byBy Alex Vadukul[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]There’s a small apartment on 137th Street in Hamilton Heights that contains one of the most peculiar videotape collections in New York. The dusty VHS archive fills a vast library that contains the analog history of a sport: 8,000 cassettes with recordings of over 55,000 boxing matches that span 40 years.It was the life’s work of Bela Szilagyi, a classical pianist and passionate fight enthusiast, who started the collection in 1979 when he taped a featherweight title match on a Quasar videocassette recorder. Mr. Szilagyi died in 2012 at 78 years old and his wife, a soft-spoken piano teacher, became the collection’s archivist.On a recent Sunday night, Elizabeth Szilagyi, 76, commenced her ritual in the living room. She poured herself a glass of red wine, put on her reading glasses, and sat in front of her TV with a notepad in hand to record a welterweight fight at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. She ate a salad while taking notes about the match for the information card that gets filed in the archive. The bell rang and the boxers marched toward each other.“The fights have gotten boring now,” she said. “Everything is soft and controlled.”The fighters traded blows.“Pacquiao came back recently, but he’s past his prime,” she said. “I always liked De La Hoya. He looked innocent, but he knew what he was doing.”One fighter got stung on the jaw with an uppercut. Ms. Szilagyi jotted down the detail in her notepad.“He’s over,” she said. “The ref is going to stop it. Too bad. He’s a good fighter.”Ms. Szilagyi ejected a disc from a recorder — the archive transitioned to DVD a few years ago — and scribbled some information onto it before slipping it away into a shelf. These days, the collection rarely receives visitors and dust has grown thick across its cassette boxes.She held a framed photograph of her husband, Bela, smiling beside Muhammad Ali. “Before he died, he told me: ‘The collection is going on forever. It has to go on,’” she said. “But he left that for me to sort out.” Last year, Ms. Szilagyi made the anguished decision to wind down her duties as an archivist and try to sell the collection.“I’ve decided this can’t be the rest of my life anymore,” she said. “If the collection is here, he’s still here. But he left me with an albatross, and I just don’t have more to give. I think he’d understand. Everyone has said I need to move on. I’ve told them, ‘I’ll stop when I’m ready.’ Now it’s time to let go.”Ms. Szilagyi’s attempts to free herself of the collection have proved difficult, however, and she’s struggled to find a market for the videotapes in the YouTube era. For decades, the archive filled a niche in the boxing world, operating as a word-of-mouth videotape rental service for networks needing archival footage, fighters wanting to study opponents, and fight buffs seeking obscure bouts, but that business has dried out in recent years.She’s been approaching museums, auction houses, and sports historians about purchasing the collection, she said, but interest has been muted. “I’m hoping to get a good number, but at this point I’m open to anything,” she said. “I can’t get away from it. I can’t not see it. I can’t leave without thinking of it. It has a life of its own now.”Bela Szilagyi was a celebrated concert pianist and his love of boxing made for a poetic contrast that people remarked on his whole life. As a child, he played at Carnegie Hall and then studied at Juilliard, and he would listen to fights on the radio as a reward from the rigors of practice. Mary Elizabeth Brett met him in 1964 when she studied with him. On one of their first dates, he took her to a fight at Madison Square Garden. “I remember if you sat too close to the ring you’d end up with red spots on your clothes,” she said. They married in 1968 and toured as an act that performed classical piano duets.Mr. Szilagyi’s collection started humbly enough. He recorded the first tape in 1979: Danny “Little Red” Lopez versus Robert Castanon. But he soon had grander visions, seeing himself as a curator of boxing history. He began taping every fight he could and typing up reviews of each bout. When Buster Douglas knocked out Mike Tyson in 1990, Bela wrote a breathless dispatch: “Douglas has stood the boxing world on its head and now calls the shots,” he wrote. “Was it a fluke, or is Tyson finished? A CLASSIC FIGHT.”Ms. Szilagyi sometimes worried about his hobby. “Here is the man I love,” she said. “I wondered, ‘Is this what my marriage is going to look like for the rest of my life?’”By the mid-1980s, word had spread about the collection and promoters, fight fans, and networks were calling the Szilagyi apartment for tapes. A rental service, Captain Video Boxing, was founded. Their clients, Ms. Szilagyi said, included promoters like Don King and the teams of fighters like Evander Holyfield, Mike Tyson, and Oscar De La Hoya.Teddy Atlas, who helped train Mike Tyson as an amateur, remembered relying on the archive. “Everyone used Captain Video,” he said. “If I wanted to see how a fighter was in the ring, I’d call them to get the tape. If I was training a fighter, we’d get the tape to look at opponents.” He added: “Its relevance has been diminished with the passing of time. Now it’s a thing that represents a man’s love for boxing.”Mr. Szilagyi died in 2012 and a mix of classical musicians and boxing industry personalities attended his funeral. By that point, his collection was becoming increasingly obsolete. Just about every fight was available online, and you didn’t have to trek up to Hamilton Heights and find a working VCR.Today, Ms. Szilagyi still has a few loyal customers who rent tapes, she said, including an old Atlantic City matchmaker and a construction worker in the Bronx. Her youngest daughter, Anda, 41, grew up around the collection and helped record fights when her parents were away.“This has all been part of a grieving process for her. It was never just about the tapes,” Anda said. “But it’s time for her to live her own life again. She’s not just a widow. She’s much more than that. She’s an amazing pianist and teacher.”The other night, as Ms. Szilagyi recorded a match, a fighter was knocked out. She put on her reading glasses and dutifully jotted, “KO,” into her notes. After taking a sip of wine, she said that she still senses her husband’s presence in the apartment. “When there’s a big fight on — and only then — the light above my TV turns on and flickers,” she said. “I think that’s Bela saying hello.”She doesn’t know what the fate of the collection will be. The offers she’s received have been miserly, she said, and she’s suspicious it will get poorly taken care of. “I want to get rid of it, but it’s very important to me it ends up in the right hands,” she said. “It will be hard. Like he died again. At least it would be gone.” She admitted briefly considering a drastic measure: What if she just tossed the videotapes out onto the street?“I don’t think I could do that,” she said. “That would be cruel. Bela would come back. That light would start going off like crazy.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bymatterDNA is spelled out with four letters, or bases. Researchers have now built a system with eight. It may hold clues to the potential for life elsewhere in the universe and could also expand our capacity to store digital data on EarthBy Carl ZimmerIn 1985, the chemist Steven A. Benner sat down with some colleagues and a notebook and sketched out a way to expand the alphabet of DNA. He has been trying to make those sketches real ever since.On Thursday, Dr. Benner and a team of scientists reported success: in a paper, published in Science, they said they have in effect doubled the genetic alphabet. Natural DNA is spelled out with four different letters known as bases — A, C, G and T. Dr. Benner and his colleagues have built DNA with eight bases — four natural, and four unnatural. They named their new system Hachimoji DNA (hachi is Japanese for eight, moji for letter).Crafting the four new bases that don't exist in nature was a chemical tour-de-force. They fit neatly into DNA’s double helix, and enzymes can read them as easily as natural bases, in order to make molecules.“We can do everything here that is necessary for life,” said Dr. Benner, now a distinguished fellow at the Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution in Florida.Hachimoji DNA could have many applications, including a far more durable way to store digital data that could last for centuries. “This could be huge that way,” said Dr. Nicholas V. Hud, a biochemist at Georgia Institute of Technology who was not involved in research.It also raises a profound question about the nature of life elsewhere in the universe, offering the possibility that the four-base DNA we are familiar with may not be the only chemistry that could support life. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The four natural bases of DNA are all anchored to molecular backbones. A pair of backbones can join into a double helix because their bases are attracted to each other. The bases form a bond with their hydrogen atoms.But bases don’t stick together at random. C can only bond to G, and A can only bond to T. These strict rules help ensure that DNA strands don’t clump together into a jumble. No matter what sequence of bases are contained in natural DNA, it still keeps its shape.But those four bases are not the only compounds that can attach to DNA’s backbone and link to another base — at least on paper. Dr. Benner and his colleagues thought up a dozen alternatives.Working at the Swiss university ETH Zurich at the time, Dr. Benner tried to make some of those imaginary bases real.“Of course, the first thing you discover is your design theory is not terribly good,” said Dr. Benner.Once Dr. Benner and his colleagues combined real atoms, according to his designs, the artificial bases didn’t work as he had hoped. Nevertheless, Dr. Benner’s initial forays impressed other chemists. “His work was a real inspiration for me,” said Floyd E. Romesberg, now of the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego. Reading about Dr. Benner’s early experiments, Dr. Romesberg decided to try to create his own bases.Dr. Romesberg chose not to make bases that linked together with hydrogen bonds; instead, he fashioned a pair of oily compounds that repelled water. That chemistry brought his unnatural pair of bases together. “Oil doesn’t like to mix with water, but it does like to mix with oil,” said Dr. Romesberg.In the years that followed, Dr. Romesberg and his colleagues fashioned enzymes that could copy DNA made from both natural bases and unnatural, oily ones. In 2014, the scientists engineered bacteria that could make new copies of these hybrid genes. In recent years, Dr. Romesberg’s team has begun making unnatural proteins from these unnatural genes. He founded a company, Synthorx, to develop some of these proteins as cancer drugs.At the same time, Dr. Benner continued with his own experiments. He and his colleagues succeeded in creating one pair of new bases.Like Dr. Romesberg, they found an application for their unnatural DNA. Their six-base DNA became the basis of a new, sensitive test for viruses in blood samples. They then went on to create a second pair of new bases. Now with eight bases to play with, the researchers started building DNA molecules with a variety of different sequences. The researchers found that no matter which sequence they created, the molecules still formed the standard double helix.Because Hachimoji DNA held onto this shape, it could act like regular DNA: it could store information, and that information could be read to make a molecule.For a cell, the first step in making a molecule is to read a gene using special enzymes. They make a copy of the gene in a single-stranded version of DNA, called RNA.Depending on the gene, the cell will then do one of two things with that RNA. In some cases, it will use the RNA as a guide to build a protein. But in other cases, the RNA molecule floats off to do a job of its own.Dr. Benner and his colleagues created a Hachimoji gene for an RNA molecule. They predicted that the RNA molecule would be able to grab a molecule called a fluorophore. Cradled by the RNA molecule, the fluorophore would absorb light and release it as a green flash.Andrew Ellington, an evolutionary engineer at the University of Texas, led the effort to find an enzyme that could read Hachimoji DNA. He and his colleagues found a promising one made by a virus, and they tinkered with it until the enzyme could easily read all eight bases.They mixed the enzyme in test tubes with the Hachimoji gene. As they had hoped, their test tubes began glowing green.“Here you have it from start to finish,” said Dr. Benner. “We can store information, we can transfer it to another molecule and that other molecule has a function — and here it is, glowing.”In the future, Hachimoji DNA may store information of a radically different sort. It might someday encode a movie or a spreadsheet.Today, movies, spreadsheets and other digital files are typically stored on silicon chips or magnetic tapes. But those kinds of storage have serious shortcomings. For one thing, they can deteriorate in just years.DNA, by contrast, can remain intact for centuries. Last year, researchers at Microsoft and the University of Washington managed to encode 35 songs, videos, documents, and other files, totaling 200 megabytes, in a batch of DNA molecules. With eight bases instead of four, Hachimoji DNA could potentially encode far more information. “DNA capable of twice as much storage? That’s pretty amazing in my view,” said Dr. Ellington.Beyond our current need for storage, Hachimoji DNA also offers some clues about life itself. Scientists have long wondered if our DNA evolved only four bases because they’re the only ones that can work in genes. Could life have taken a different path?“Steve’s work goes a long way to say that it could have — it just didn’t,” said Dr. Romesberg.Carl Zimmer writes the “Matter” column. He is the author of thirteen books, including “She Has Her Mother's Laugh: The Powers, Perversions, and Potential of Heredity.”  @carlzimmer • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA stay-at-home dad in Kansas reveals how the lines have blurred between viral trolling and the business of politics.By Charlie WarzelMr. Warzel is an Opinion writer at large.Welcome to 2019, where it takes just 19 hours for a faked homemade video of Joe Biden to travel from the keyboard of a pseudonymous “memesmith” to the president of the United States. The video, which splices footage from Mr. Biden’s recent apology for unwanted touching of several women with older footage of Mr. Biden, ricocheted around the pro-Trump corners of the internet. First on Twitter, then across Reddit forums, before getting picked up by White House director of social media Dan Scavino, Donald Trump Jr. and, finally, the president, who appended the caption “WELCOME BACK JOE!” WELCOME BACK JOE! pic.twitter.com/b2NbBSX3sxThe video has been viewed  31 million times and counting and forced Mr. Biden to respond in a tweet, “I see that you are on the job and presidential, as always.” Yep, a grainy, edited parody clip of the former vice president that’s made to look as if he’s kissing his own neck and creepily massaging himself will now be forever preserved by the Presidential Records Act. It’s a perfectly unbelievable and dispiriting artifact of our fractured and chaotic political media ecosystem, where politicking is conducted through viral memes and retweets.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what's at stake and what you can do about it.]The entire event is at once silly, trivial, offensive and, thanks to Donald Trump’s Twitter feed, something we’re now begrudgingly made to pay attention to. The same goes for the video’s creator, a stay-at-home dad in his mid-30s, who goes by the pseudonym “CarpeDonktum.” As his handle indicates, the meme creator is purposefully outrageous and yet, seemingly now has an indirect line to the Oval Office. And his elevation — from a Kansas City keyboard warrior to right-wing internet fame as the president’s unofficial meme maker — is a telling example of how the internet has fully blurred the lines between meme posting and business of politics.“It’s definitely an organic process,” CarpeDonktum told me over the phone shortly after Mr. Trump tweeted his video. “Dan Scavino follows me on Twitter, but there’s no formal relationship there between me and the president. If there’s something I want to make sure [Scavino] sees, I’ll wait for him to post a tweet and try to be the first to reply, linking to what I want to show.” He said that he doesn’t get paid for any of his videos (other than his Patreon crowdfunding account and occasional YouTube ad revenue) and has no relationships to outside politicians.Back in February, Mr. Trump tweeted out a CarpeDonktum video, mocking liberal members of congress during the State of the Union speech. The video, set to the tune of R.E.M.’s “Everybody Hurts,” was removed from the president’s account for copyright violations, sparking outrage in pro-Trump spheres over allegations of censorship. The controversy bolstered CarpeDonktum’s reputation among the #MAGA crowd. “If a political campaign wanted to hire me to do viral marketing stuff for them, that could be interesting,” he mused. I asked if he’d work on a Trump 2020 campaign. “It depends on the specifics,” he said.CarpeDonktum started making memes, like countless other online Trump supporters, after spending time on Reddit’s The_Donald forum. The forum has come under scrutiny for alleged instances of harassment and sometimes hosting content alleged to be from white nationalist personalities or communities. CarpeDonktum denied such behavior went on in the forums.His first public meme was posted in the summer of 2017, when Mr. Trump tweeted an infamous gif made by a Reddit user depicting the president body slamming a wrestler whose face had been replaced by CNN’s logo. He argues that the nod from Trump and the fallout after the tweet encouraged a race on the pro-Trump internet to create the most elaborate meme to troll mainstream media organizations. “That’s when the game changed,” he said, “and memes went from being crummy images to these high-fidelity ones.”Since, CarpeDonktum said he’s gone from creating the videos frame by frame in Microsoft’s Paint program, to using the expensive, high-powered motion graphics software, Adobe After Effects. Last year he won a $10,000 meme contest hosted by the conspiracy site Infowars and now said that he gets more than dozen requests per day to make bespoke political memes. While he said he doesn’t “need or care about the money” he expressed hope that his information warfare tactics could someday lead to something more — like a job doing viral marketing for political candidates.According to their creator, it’s no fluke that the videos caught the eye of the president; he tailors them to an older generation of internet users. The elaborate memes feature footage from old Looney Tunes cartoons or depict Mr. Trump as a cowboy from an old John Wayne-style Western, slapping a man with a CNN or MSNBC logo across its head. “It’s boomer humor,” he said of his style of videos. “I’m not a boomer. But that brand of humor is most easily shareable by lots of people. So, I stay away from real violence, or overly sexualized stuff so it appeals to the largest amount of people.” The strategy works. The videos share extremely well among an aging Trump supporter contingent who are prolific and aggressive posters of misinformation and hyperpartisan content on platforms like Facebook. They also make the rounds on Fox News. “Sean Hannity is going to play the video tonight,” he told me (a short clip ran early in his Hannity’s broadcast). “Some kids that are 18 can retweet it and so can some grandma in Wisconsin. It’s slightly edgy but universal.”Though his videos are dressed up using cartoons or slapstick humor, all of them center on the incendiary, offensive and hyperpartisan themes of Mr. Trump’s politics (the wall, anti-media sentiment, making fun of Hillary Clinton and other Democrats). And CarpeDonktum, who described himself as “an entertainer” who “wants to make people laugh,” is not above engaging in all-caps Trumpian politics (which includes angrily tweeting at liberal politicians). His desire not to reveal his name suggests that he’s aware that those outside Trumpland find his content toxic. “I’m not shy about this stuff but I don’t advertise it,” he said. “If I were to go to a party I wouldn’t introduce myself as the ‘Trump meme guy from Twitter.’”That CarpeDonktum’s online musings or personal life should be picked apart is controversial in its own right. At first glance, it feels silly, maybe even wrong, to elevate him. He’s not a politician. He’s a Reddit user wielding far-right “Dad humor.” He’s not a public figure, save a few Infowars appearances and Persicope live stream videos where he films himself talking while he makes lunch for his children.But at a time when our politics is programmed by what’s viral on Twitter, CarpeDonktum appears — stupefyingly as it might seem — to have something approaching power in MAGAland. It appears he senses it, too. “All of the memes and stuff like that.” he said. “That’s the future of political advertising.” “The 30 second spots on TV aren’t the way to market anymore. The stuff online that people dismiss as memes — that’s the way to motivate people,” he added. “It’s the viral political marketing of the future.” In theory, his story is a perfect realization of the utopian understanding of the utopian promise of the internet: a truly democratic system of communication where anyone, anywhere can create things and get them seen by important people — even the president! But in keeping with our current political moment, that utopian vision is used for vapid, divisive ends. The reality, as we should all know by now, is darker and a whole lot dumber. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism. He welcomes your tips and feedback: charlie.warzel@nytimes.com |  @cwarzel AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi there. Did you see the lunar eclipse last week? I didn’t, either. (I thought about it, and then fell asleep.) Of course, of all the eclipses to miss, this one was eventful: A mysterious flash of light appeared on the side of the moon right around midnight. Astronomers believe that it was a meteoroid that crashed and burned, but we may never know.Scientists also reported last week that a planet the size of Mars collided with Earth about 4.4 billion years ago, scattering a shower of rocks that coalesced into the moon. These celestial events put this dark, endless-seeming January into perspective, don’t they? Or they’re just one more reminder that NASA has been mostly closed for weeks, another casualty of the government shutdown. You can catch up on the latest shutdown (and reopening) news below, plus the biggest stories in business and tech, in much less time than 4.4 billion years (more like four minutes). Then, get back to enjoying this particular rotation of the Earth.JAN. 20-26President Trump made a surprise announcement on Friday that he had agreed to reopen the federal government for three weeks. During that time, Congress can pass spending bills to temporarily restore normal operations at a number of federal agencies and resume paying the 800,000 workers who have been furloughed or forced to work for free for 35 days. (They’ll also receive back wages.) Mr. Trump will continue to negotiate for more funding to secure the nation’s southwestern border, although he appears to be retreating from his previous demands for a $5 billion wall. The cease-fire came after a backlash against Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s suggestion that furloughed workers take out personal loans to cover their bills. There were also widespread flight delays on Friday because of a shortage of air traffic controllers, who called in sick after more than a month of working without pay.You know who doesn’t have paycheck woes? The business tycoons who took a record number of private jets (about 1,500 in total) to the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last week. On the ground, the hot topic was tech. Several world leaders called for international regulations in the technology sector, particularly over the collection and use of our personal data. But could that really happen? A recent report showed that Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft spent a combined $64 million in 2018 to lobby for measures that would keep regulators at bay. And they aren’t the only ones working behind the scenes. Many business elites claimed to be worried about how artificial intelligence and automation could replace people’s jobs, but privately they’re investing in it.The latest in the battle against fake news (and that annoying friend who sends spam to your social media every day): WhatsApp, the Facebook-owned messaging application with 1.5 billion users, has capped the number of times someone can forward a message at five. The limit is intended to curb the rapid dissemination of false information like doctored photos, manipulated recordings and straight-up lies. Previously, a WhatsApp user could forward a message to 20 individuals or groups, allowing rumors to spread faster than anyone could monitor. The company has been working to resolve these issues since July, when misinformation on social media led to deadly mob violence in India. JAN. 27-FEB. 2China and the United States will face off in a round of high-pressure trade talks in Washington this week, and it’ll be a nail-biter: Both economic superpowers want to end what has become a destructive trade war, but that’s about it for their common ground. The Trump administration is pushing for China to significantly open its markets to foreign investment and stop forcing American companies to hand over trade secrets. But those may be nonstarters. If no agreement is reached by March 2, Mr. Trump has said, the United States will raise tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods. That’d be a lose-lose for Chinese and American businesses and consumers. Meet Venezuela’s dueling presidents: the incumbent, Nicolás Maduro, who claimed office after a disputed election, and the 35-year-old opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, who appointed himself last week to oversee a transitional government. Mr. Guaidó was quickly backed by the United States, which offered $20 billion to aid his efforts. The sentiment was echoed by other countries in the region that view Mr. Maduro as an illegitimate dictator who has driven the oil-rich and formerly prosperous country into an era of crisis. But he won’t go quietly. Russia is a major stakeholder in Venezuela’s energy sector and has funneled more than $10 billion to Mr. Maduro’s government (and its military). There’s much to gain from being on the winning side of this clash — fossil fuels, in particular. Another week, another clobbering for Prime Minister Theresa May and her plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union. Next up: Parliament will vote on amendments to Mrs. May’s Brexit deal on Tuesday. She’s proposing to renegotiate with the European Union over the plan’s major sticking points, namely customs checks on the Irish border. (The European Union wants them, and Britain doesn’t.) European Union leaders will debate the deal the next day, but don’t expect much progress. What you can anticipate, though, is that more companies will pull out of Britain, worried that a no-deal Brexit could create a giant financial mess. The Postal Service is raising the price of a first-class Forever stamp to 55 cents from 50, effective this week. It’s the largest postage price increase ever. What’s not rising? Interest rates. They’re likely to stay right where they are when the Fed meets to discuss them this week. In other news, more companies are using “cube satellites” to spy on their competitors from space. Wave hello.$238 million: The record selling price of a penthouse apartment overlooking Central Park, purchased by a hedge fund billionaire last week. It’s the most anyone has ever paid for a home in the United States, breaking the previous record of $137 million for an East Hampton house that sold in 2014.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Mark LandlerWASHINGTON — President Trump got a firsthand taste of aircraft safety risks in August 1989 when a Boeing 727 operated by the Trump Shuttle, which he had bought a few months earlier and rebranded with his name, failed to lower its nose gear as it prepared to land in Boston.“He was quite terrified that we were going to have an airplane burning on the runway with his name splashed across it,” said Bruce R. Nobles, who was the airline’s president.The Trump Shuttle jet landed safely, if in a shower of sparks, and a euphoric Mr. Trump hailed the pilots as heroes. But Mr. Nobles said his boss was nervous about flying to Boston on a shuttle flight the next day to demonstrate the airline’s safety.That same mix of swagger and uneasiness was on display in the White House on Wednesday, when Mr. Trump pre-empted the Federal Aviation Administration in announcing that the United States would ground Boeing’s fleet of 737 Max planes after two deadly crashes.Boeing, he said, was an “incredible company” and would find and fix the problem. But in the meantime, he said, “I felt it was important both psychologically and in a lot of ways” to ground the planes.It was the latest illustration of Mr. Trump’s longstanding, peculiar affinity for aviation — an industry he knows as an owner and frequent flier, but often claims to understand as an aeronautical engineer.Whether it is the merits of Boeing’s F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jet, the cost of a new Air Force One or Mr. Trump’s frequent assertion that the F-35 stealth fighter is “literally invisible,” the president barges into the technical details of aviation with more enthusiasm than expertise.A day before grounding the 737s, Mr. Trump declared that modern planes were too complex for anyone but “computer scientists from MIT” to fly. Aviation experts pointed out that the problem with the 737 Max might be exactly the opposite: Boeing designed the modified 737 so that it would require minimal additional training of the pilots.People who have worked with Mr. Trump said his knowledge of aviation reflected someone who had owned private planes — first a 727 and later a 757 — but little more than that. His older brother, Fred Trump Jr., was a pilot for Trans World Airlines and married a flight attendant. But Mr. Trump channeled his passion into real estate development.“He knows more about airlines and aviation than the average person, but he doesn’t know as much as I do,” said Mr. Nobles, who ran Hawaiian Airlines and Air Jamaica after his time at the Trump Shuttle. “Then again, I don’t know as much as him about real estate.”Mr. Trump’s short-lived tenure as an airline executive captures his strange relationship with the industry. He was drawn to the shuttle less because he loved flying than because he saw it as a “diamond” — a prestigious, pre-Acela system of transportation for the nation’s East Coast elite.After buying the shuttle from financially strapped Eastern Air Lines for $365 million in 1989, Mr. Trump proceeded to polish it by fitting out its fleet of 21 planes with maple wood veneer and gold-colored lavatory fixtures. He offered passengers free food, coffee, magazines and newspapers.“I’ll spend more money and I’ll give the people more than they anticipate even,” he told The New York Times in 1989, vowing, with characteristic immodesty, to create “the best transportation system of any kind in the entire world.”Mr. Trump brought bare-knuckle tactics to the Avis-Hertz competition with his rival, Pan Am Shuttle. At one point, he warned that Pan Am might not have the financial resources to maintain safe planes — a statement that violated the industry’s informal code and drew protests from Mr. Nobles, who had run the Pan Am Shuttle before jumping over to Mr. Trump.“I said to Donald: ‘Look, most people are uncomfortable flying. You’re up in the air at 35,000 feet, and the only thing between you and death is a piece of aluminum,’” Mr. Nobles recalled. “‘Anything you do to make flying seem more risky and less safe is bad for all of us.’”For a while, Mr. Trump’s innovations fueled a lively competition between the two carriers. But the economy in the Northeast ran out of steam in the fall of 1989, and Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait caused oil prices to spike the next summer. Mr. Trump looked for ways to economize.He pressed Mr. Nobles to cut the flight crews in the 727s from three to two. His personal 727 had only two pilots, he pointed out. Mr. Nobles said he explained to Mr. Trump that the 727s used by the Trump Shuttle were configured for a pilot, a co-pilot and a flight engineer. The planes would require a costly redesign to be certified for only two pilots. Mr. Trump replied that he suspected Mr. Nobles was trying to protect the pilots’ jobs.In December 1991, USAir struck a deal with Mr. Trump’s banks to take over the Trump Shuttle. Under the terms of the agreement, Mr. Trump was relieved of the bulk of the $135 million in loans he had guaranteed personally to buy the airline from Eastern. Mr. Trump has told friends he got out of the airline industry at the right time, though the economics of the industry were in a free fall by the time Mr. Trump unloaded the shuttle.“He’s not going to be remembered in the annals of the airline industry,” said Richard Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group. “He is known as the temporary caretaker of something that was heading into oblivion. That doesn’t make you an aviation industry executive.”Mr. Aboulafia said the president’s pattern with aviation, as in other areas, had been to declare a crisis and then take credit for fixing it.“The F-35 was a disaster until he could take credit for cost savings,” he said. “Air Force One was a disaster until he got major cost savings from Boeing. The Super Hornet was a terrible plane until he could take credit for putting it back into the defense budget.”After selling the Trump Shuttle, Mr. Trump’s involvement in aviation was mainly through his 757-200, which is equipped with a big-screen entertainment system and 24-karat-gold fixtures. The plane, once owned by Microsoft’s co-founder, Paul Allen, became known as “Trump Force One” after Mr. Trump used it to hopscotch between rallies during the 2016 presidential campaign.Mr. Trump was so fond of the 757 that he briefly considered using it instead of Air Force One after he took office. That coincided with Mr. Trump’s bitter complaints about the cost of a plan to replace the two Boeing 747s that currently operate as Air Force One. He also floated the prospect of naming his personal pilot, John Dunkin, to be the head of the F.A.A.Those ideas have vanished like a jet’s contrails, but Mr. Trump remains opinionated about airplanes and the industry.In January 2018 he tweeted: “Since taking office I have been very strict on Commercial Aviation. Good news — it was just reported that there were Zero deaths in 2017, the best and safest year on record!” In fact, there had not been a fatality on a commercial airliner in the United States since 2013.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionJeff WiseAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Stephen Reiss(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The U.S. and Canada, some of the last holdouts, grounded all Boeing 737 Max 8 jets in the wake of a crash. That essentially pulls the plane from almost everywhere in the world. Above, a Max 8 at La Guardia Airport in New York on Tuesday.Though no cause in the Ethiopian Airlines crash has been determined yet, one of the pilots reported “flight-control problems” to air traffic controllers, requesting permission to turn back minutes before the crash.President Trump issued the ban himself, reversing an earlier decision by American aviation regulators to keep the planes in service. Boeing said it supported the decision to ground the planes. One big open question for the American company: What happens to the 5,000 open orders for the Max 8 jets?Here’s a simple guide to all the developments in the unfolding story._____2. A criminal investigation is underway into deals Facebook struck with tech companies that gave them broad access to millions of users’ personal information.A federal grand jury in New York has subpoenaed records from at least two prominent makers of smartphones and other devices that had entered into partnerships with Facebook. Above, outside Facebook’s headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif.“We are cooperating with investigators and take those probes seriously,” a Facebook spokesman said in a statement to The Times. “We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions and pledged that we will continue to do so.”Facebook formed sharing deals with more than 150 companies, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, and has phased out most of those partnerships over the past two years._____3. Paul Manafort’s total prison time is now 7.5 years after a second judge handed down a sentence against him in one of the special counsel’s highest-profile cases. Above, Mr. Manafort last April.Mr. Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced to just under four years last week in a financial fraud case. The additional sentence encompassed a host of crimes, including money-laundering and obstruction of justice.“It is hard to overstate the number of lies and the amount of fraud and the amount of money involved,” Judge Amy Berman Jackson said, reeling off Mr. Manafort’s various offenses.Just as the second ruling came down, New York indicted Mr. Manafort on 16 additional felony charges. If convicted, he could go to prison even if the president pardons him._____4. Parents arrested. College campuses reeling. Fresh questions about standardized testing. The fallout from the college admissions bribery scandal is spreading.A day after 50 people were indicted in a sweeping Justice Department investigation, businesses, students and schools were beginning to assess the damage and distance themselves from the accused. While lawbreaking in the sector is rare, the shadowy, and completely legal, world of high-priced college consultants is nothing new.The indictments revealed two back doors available to wealthy parents, like Gordon Caplan, pictured above leaving federal court in Manhattan on Tuesday. One involved bribing university officials to pass off applicants as athletic recruits; the other used brazen cheating on standardized exams. And both schemes had two Hollywood stars playing a role, prosecutors said.Our Opinion section has multiple takes on the scandal from the columnists Frank Bruni and Farhad Manjoo, a humor writer and more._____5. News in crime and punishment:Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced a moratorium on capital punishment, granting a temporary reprieve to the 737 inmates on the state’s death row, the largest in the Western Hemisphere. The execution chamber at San Quentin prison near San Francisco, above, will also be closed under the executive order.Separately, 55,000 old rape kits around the country were finally tested with funds provided by the Manhattan district attorney’s office, resulting in the conviction of 64 attackers._____6. Dozens of children are trapped in a school after a building collapse in Lagos, Nigeria.Rescuers scrambled to pull children out from under the wreckage of a three-story building that fell in on itself. The building housed apartments as well as a nursery and a primary school. Hundreds of people had gathered at the site awaiting news of their children.Officials said at least 8 people had been killed and workers had pulled at least 37 people alive from the site._____7. The F.D.A. is moving toward restricting sales of flavored e-cigarettes to try to curb teenage vaping.The agency proposed requiring retailers to wall off flavored e-cigarettes to prevent sales to underage smokers. Menthol, mint and tobacco-flavored e-cigarettes would be allowed to stay out in the open. The proposal also includes a ban on flavored cigars smoked by 1.3 million youths. Above, a vape store in New York’s East Village.The move is opposed by many convenience stores, but some public health advocates think it doesn’t go far enough. The proposal must undergo a 30-day comment period before it can be finalized._____8. Call them the new “mafias.”With Uber, Airbnb and other tech giants readying to go public, Silicon Valley’s often-incestuous circle of life is ready to start another cycle.In this model, employees of tech start-ups frequently leave once they have been enriched by their firms’ initial public offerings and begin new ventures. Then networks of alumni from these companies — called mafias — support their peers’ new businesses with hiring, advice and money.In other tech news, here’s a guide to totally reclaiming your privacy in 15 not-so-simple steps. For one man it involved selling his house and car, setting up a new corporate identity and giving himself a fake name for his new neighbors._____9. Movie review sites like Rotten Tomatoes are often inundated with users trying to manipulate a film’s box office success. And then came “Captain Marvel.”Even before the superhero movie — starring Brie Larson, above — was released, audience reviewers gave it negative feedback, prompting sites like Rotten Tomatoes to change the rules on their platforms.We also have an interview with Amy Schumer, who told our comedy critic that her new Netflix special, “Growing,” was the most difficult challenge of her career. It airs March 19._____10. Finally, chasing a waterfall theory.Scientists had long assumed that waterfalls always formed from geological or climate-driven changes. But by building a scaled-down river in a laboratory, a research team demonstrated that waterfalls can bring themselves into existence without any outside help. Above, a waterfall in Tal, Nepal.By better understanding how waterfalls can form, the new study may prompt scientists to reconsider how our planet shaped itself, and look at geology with greater precision.Have a beautiful night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThere is no fighting sexism on television without fighting age discrimination along with it.By Steve CavendishMr. Cavendish is a Nashville-based journalist.Some of the most powerful ideas are simple ones.“We believe that if you can see her, you can be her,” reads the slogan of the #SeeHer initiative, a gender equity campaign led by the Association of National Advertisers. Their mission: to change the way women are depicted throughout the media, by increasing diversity across criteria ranging from age to race to body type.It’s a laudable goal and one that’s been embraced by corporate giants like Ford, Walmart and Microsoft, who have all committed to examining how women are being portrayed in their advertising. And in October, Meredith, a media company that owns both high-profile magazines like People, Better Homes & Gardens and Martha Stewart Living, as well as 15 television stations that reach approximately 12 million households, became the first media corporation to sign on, committing to do its part to help #SeeHer shift the balance of how women are portrayed by 2020, the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment which gave women the right to vote. Meredith joining marked an interesting breakthrough for the campaign because, as both a publisher and broadcaster with wide reach, they not only buy ads in other media but also produce original media content.Meredith is also, as it happens, being sued for age discrimination.In 2015, CBS affiliate KCTV in Kansas City, fired news anchor Karen Fuller, then 47, from the station and replaced her with a 32-year old. In Dec. 2017, NBC affiliate WSMV in Nashville let anchor Demetria Kalodimos, then 58, go, and replaced her with someone a decade younger. Both women subsequently filed suit.Ms. Fuller’s suit alleged that removing older women from highly visible roles has been a problem at Meredith stations, with a set of seven female anchors in markets including Atlanta, Phoenix and St. Louis removed in a span of five years and replaced with younger women. The average age of the anchors who lost their jobs was 46.8, while their replacements averaged 38.1 years. In one case, the difference was more than two decades.As they were evaluating candidates, Ms. Fuller’s bosses at KCTV, according to the suit, sought a replacement with a “hometown girl” look, and voiced concerns about how candidates would appear on camera in the years to come. “She can be cute and young but also able to dress up and be more serious and respectable … How will she age I wonder?” said the station’s creative director in an email about one prospect.This is rarely a consideration for male anchors, who are on average a decade older than their female counterparts at Meredith stations; after ousting Ms. Fuller, KCTV named a 32-year-old woman to pair with her 54-year-old former co-anchor. After a federal judge rejected Meredith’s requests to dismiss the case, the company settled the suit for an undisclosed amount before it could go to trial in December.Ms. Kalodimos’ removal was even more bewildering. The face of WSMV in Nashville for three decades, she is one of the most decorated reporters in the city, and has won three medals from Investigative Reporters and Editors. I’ve known Ms. Kalodimos for five years, and watched her for most of her career. Her departure was a farce: She found out about her dismissal via a package left at the station’s front desk after she had been out shooting an investigative piece on her day off. In her suit, Ms. Kalodimos says she believes she incurred the ire of the station by acting as a witness in an age discrimination suit filed by four other WSMV employees. The station disputes her claims in federal court filings.These stations are hardly alone in showing people like Ms. Kalodimos the door. Aging in television newsrooms has always been a problem, particularly for women. For every Judy Woodruff or Andrea Mitchell who has remained on the air into her 70s, many more hit the ceiling that Ms. Fuller and Ms. Kalodimos have found, in spite of performance. Famously, Christine Craft, another Kansas City anchor, won $500,000 in 1983 for being “too old, unattractive and not deferential enough to men.” In 2013, Telemundo settled a suit brought by reporter Vicky Gutierrez, who was laid off and then replaced by a “substantially younger woman.” And in September, investigative reporter Michele Gillen, 63, filed suit for age discrimination, accusing a CBS affiliate in Miami of barring her from high-profile assignments because of her age. (The station disputes Ms. Gillen’s claims.)“There is nothing new about older anchors feeling that they’re devalued in newsrooms,” said Al Tompkins, a senior broadcast faculty member at The Poynter Institute. “I’ve been around newsrooms for 46 years. They always felt like ‘My time is going to come when they’re not going to want me on the air.’”Local television presents a particularly tough challenge: Ratings pressure is ever-present, consultants are a constant and management turnover can be high — neither of the general managers who terminated Ms. Fuller or Ms. Kalodimos, for instance, is still at their station. And yet the cultural influence of these stations, for all that they’re viewed as an outdated medium, remains real: Almost 40 percent of Americans watch local TV news, more than watch cable or broadcast.Which gets back to the problem of Meredith and #SeeHer.An unappreciated aspect of sexism in the workplace is age discrimination, and it operates in many places. But one of the places where it’s most visible — where we can all #SeeHer getting aged out — is in TV news.Meredith is not the only broadcaster who has faced discrimination claims. But their decision to join the #SeeHer campaign gives the company — a magazine publisher that reaches more female readers than any other — an opportunity to force its local broadcasters to face some longstanding problems in television news, to take the lead in promoting all manner of image metrics, including race, body type and, yes, age.In a statement, Meredith’s senior vice president of human resources, Dina Nathanson, said the company “categorically denies” the charges raised in the Kalodimos lawsuit. She also pointed to the company’s “outstanding track record regarding gender equity in the workplace”: 57 percent of its on-air talent and 52 percent of its anchors are women, she said, and that the company also has more women in off-air leadership roles than the industry average.“Quite frankly, we don’t see the point of this op-ed piece as we are already a clear leader among media companies on the issue of gender equality, and are actively expanding our efforts,” said Ms. Nathanson.That’s great, and advancing gender equality in multiple forms is important work. But it is not enough. It is impossible to accurately reflect women in the media when women in the TV news business are punished for getting older. Because if you can’t #SeeHer — well, we know what happens then. It’s something Ms. Kalodimos is feeling acutely right now.“My gender and my age stamped me with a bull's-eye I couldn’t shed despite decades of dedication, journalism awards, public respect and popularity,” Ms. Kalodimos told me. “At Meredith, the message to women journalists is loud and clear: Don’t make trouble, don’t stick up for other women, and whatever you do, don’t get old.”Steve Cavendish is a Nashville-based journalist and former editor of the Nashville Scene and Washington City Paper.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bysolver storiesA son remembers the joy of solving with his mother.By Doug WatlingMy mother, Joyce, grew up singing and tap dancing, something that not many people know. She studied piano and voice in her youth, entered a university music program, and emerged a classically trained soprano, in near-constant demand for concerts and recitals. She made a couple of badly pressed records, toured the southern states and performed a single show in New York City, all by the time she was 22.In 1947, hard on the heels of that tour, the Metropolitan Opera came calling. Not surprisingly, my mother turned down the audition, stayed home in far away New Brunswick, Canada and married my father. She was always a pragmatist.Like most postwar brides, she took matrimony seriously. My mother cooked and kept house, but she was also true to herself. Mom continued to sing. And sing. And sing. She also acted in musicals (Nancy in “Oliver,” Kate in “Kiss Me Kate”), joined the Gilbert and Sullivan Society, ran an interview show for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, co-founded a community newspaper with my father, played the organ for all manner of churches, conducted a choir for 25 years — and daily, religiously, solved crosswords.Throughout my childhood, Mom tore the crossword pages from the morning and afternoon newspapers that arrived at our house. Articles lost their beginnings and ends, and entire sections fell apart. Crossword pages took over the house. Most ended up strewn beside the living room couch, alongside a china mug stained brown by coffee and tea.My mother was a late-afternoon and late-night solver. She liked to camp out on the couch as dinner warmed up and tackle that day’s puzzles. Mom preferred to solve undisturbed by family; choral music was her company of choice. In the evenings, my parents and I gathered around our new color television. My mother would balance a cup of coffee on a tray and complete the crosswords on her lap, barely glancing at the TV.I couldn’t have cared less about crosswords until my midteens, when Mom began soliciting my advice on popular culture clues. My mother, steeped in music theory and the classical repertoire, claimed to have lost touch with current trends after Elvis. I realize now that Mom was quite capable of deciphering the answers on her own. Crosswords were simply her attempt to connect with her rebellious teenage son.Years later, crossword clues on computer terminology left my mother baffled. This was before the internet, and technology clues were invitations to phone me in Toronto or in Halifax. My mother would ring up and plead, “What in God’s name is ‘Microsoft suite’?” I would try to explain, and secretly bless crosswords for giving my mother an excuse to call.I was hooked on crosswords by the time I left home, thanks to Mom. On summer visits, my mother and I would once again join forces at the family cottage. Somehow, crosswords became a natural, unforced way to re-establish our relationship and pick up where we’d left off.During those summers, I would wander up the lane early in the morning to collect the newspaper. The rest of the day was fair game for the crossword — in between meals and swims and card games and berry-picking and reading and long, long walks. The news was secondary. We had a radio and knew what was going on. The crossword, on the other hand, was always different and fresh, and kept the world at bay.At 5 p.m. or so, my mother would quietly plop some potato chips in a bowl, pour herself a tiny crystal glass of sherry, and repair to the porch, where we would tie up our crossword loose ends. The sun would drop slowly across the lake, and the world would seem just about right.At the cottage, my mother and I polished off the Monday and Tuesday crosswords by noon. We weren’t lightning-fast solvers; Fridays and Saturdays were generally all-day affairs. We needed another challenge, so I began going to town to pick up the Globe and Mail, which always carried a cryptic crossword. Cryptics were new to my mother, and in no time she was hooked. I won’t soon forget those eureka moments when my mother and I would look at each other and shout, “That’s it!”Every cryptic took us days to complete, much to the annoyance of my wife. She disliked crosswords in general, but reserved a special disdain for cryptics. Inevitably, at some crisis point in every cryptic, my mother and I would be gnashing our teeth. My wife, as lateral a thinker as ever walked, would blurt out some nonsensical answer. Mom and I would exchange “Oh, my God, she’s right!” looks, then pretend it was all a fluke. Not so my wife, who insisted that her offhand solutions reaffirmed the absurdity of all puzzles.Those were the halcyon days. Eventually, cottage upkeep became too much. On her own one September, Mom faltered in the icy water. She was rescued by a fellow cottager. After she was relegated to home, crosswords helped keep my mother afloat. I wanted my mother to be well, but discarded puzzles told another tale. Early one morning, I found her slumped over breakfast with a crossword by her side, totally incoherent.As it turned out, my mother had been suffering from a sneaky case of dementia. It had fooled us all. In her new assisted living apartment, the signs became more and more clear. The radio, one of my mother’s trademark habits, fell silent. Mom ignored the mysterious television remote, and fought unsuccessfully to navigate the bathroom’s bewildering array of switches.Crosswords remained the route back to Mom’s real self. I extended her newspaper subscription. My mother barely glanced at the headlines and, yes, ripped out the crosswords. Muscle memory seemed to have taken over. Mom kept the crosswords in unruly stacks scattered around her apartment, an answer or two in each. One day, I tried to tidy up and recycle her puzzles, and my mother had the first and only hissy fit of her life.Finally, I arrived one morning to find two caregivers hovering beside my mother’s bed. My mother was sprawled on the bedroom floor. Over the next long weeks, a familiar scenario played itself out: broken hip, surgery, failed rehab, palliative care, and a long, slow decline until my mother died at 5:19 a.m. on a cold March morning.A few days earlier, quite disoriented, my mother had glanced sideways at her bedside table. “I keep expecting to see a crossword there,” she said, as clear as a bell. Even in the midst of her dementia — a puzzle that she couldn’t quite figure out — my mother was still looking for answers.Doug Watling is a semiretired writer, sommelier and educator. He lives in Kentville, Nova Scotia, Canada.Illustration by Alice Mollon.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Jason HorowitzTRIESTE, Italy — For centuries, this cosmopolitan port city at the northern tip of Italy’s Adriatic coast acted as a geographic pivot point between empires. Then, for nearly 70 years, Trieste’s geopolitical star dimmed and its old world mishmash of central European cultures grew stale, like an old strudel in one of its elegant cafes.Now, courtesy of a rising China, Trieste appears ready to return to the center of a realigning world.This week, President Xi Jinping of China arrives in Rome for a state visit in which Italy is expected to become the first Group of 7 nation to participate in China’s vast One Belt, One Road infrastructure project. The symbolism is striking — a powerful China drives a crack in the economic alliance that once dominated the globe and delivers a major blow to a Trump administration that has been critical of the Belt and Road Initiative.For Italy, the deal would open the country to greater Chinese infrastructure investment, particularly in ports like Trieste. Officials here say they expect Beijing-backed conglomerates, such as the China Communications Construction Company, to bid hundreds of millions of euros for infrastructure concessions.For China, having a toehold in one of Europe’s historic ports would bring favorable customs conditions, a faster trade route to the heart of the Continent and direct access to railroads for moving its goods into the European Union.“Fundamentally, what’s happening is that the port of Trieste is returning to the logistical role for Europe that it had for the old Austro-Hungarian empire,” said Zeno D’Agostino, the president of the Trieste port authority, whose office is sprinkled with gifts from Chinese delegations and a book about European-Chinese cultural relations.To walk through Trieste is to witness how the city has already opened to China. Chinese tourists shop for the city’s trademark Illy coffee and take pictures with their Huawei phones of the elegant Caffè Degli Specchi. A brand-new cruise ship, built in nearby shipyards expressly for Chinese passengers, is docked in the central waterfront piazza, preparing to set sail on Marco Polo’s path to the Far East.Most significant, construction workers in scuba gear have been laying foundations near the site where a new pier is expected to become China’s home in the industrial port. In the years after World War II, the Americans held great sway in Trieste, and Washington has now sought, so far unsuccessfully, to stop Italy’s deal with Mr. Xi, characterizing the Belt and Road Initiative as an economic and potentially military threat.While other members of the European Union, including France and Germany, have also expressed reservations about the deal with China, supporters in Italy say that there is nothing to worry about and that the critics are merely upset that Trieste — and other Italian ports, like Genoa and Palermo — are going to cut in on their business. They reject comparisons to the port of Piraeus in Greece, which China essentially bought, and say Italian law makes such an acquisition or the laying of Chinese debt traps impossible.Michele Geraci, an Italian economic development minister who is running the negotiations with Beijing, said in an interview that Chinese ships carrying materials from home or its vast network of interests in Africa through the Suez Canal simply needed to get their goods to central European markets as quickly as possible.“Trieste meets that requirement swiftly,” he said.Italian officials say their American counterparts initially seemed disinterested in the deal. Deputy Prime Minister Luigi Di Maio, the leader of the Five Star Movement, has made several trips to China in recent months, nearly signing the accord during a November visit to Beijing, they said. After the fact, American diplomats began making their case, but the Italians said the deal was noticeably not on the American radar during recent high-level meetings in Washington.But this month, Garrett Marquis, spokesman for the American national security adviser, John R. Bolton, sharply attacked the deal in a Twitter post and in several interviews, while the National Security Council’s official Twitter account also issued a reproach on March 9.“Endorsing BRI lends legitimacy to China’s predatory approach to investment and will bring no benefits to the Italian people,” the tweet stated, referring to the Belt and Road Initiative.The Americans have also tried to pressure leaders of the nationalist League party, which is part of the governing coalition in Italy. This month, Trump administration officials and, separately, the former White House official Stephen K. Bannon, met with party leaders; Mr. Bannon said that he had warned his Italian allies in the League against what he called China’s “British East India Company model of predatory capitalism.”Awakened to the growing Chinese influence, American officials have had more success pushing Italy to avoid using the new 5G networks of the Chinese electronics giant Huawei, which Washington warns could be used by Beijing to disrupt and spy on communications networks. In recent days, the Italians have excised any mention of technology and communications from the Belt and Road agreement, people familiar with the negotiations said.In Trieste, city leaders are focused on the economic benefits to the port.Beyond its convenient location, the city on Monday celebrated the 300th anniversary of Emperor Charles VI of Austria declaring it a “free port.” That status still confers special privileges, with no customs charges or time limits on storage for goods.If the deal goes through, proponents say they envision Chinese companies working with Italian counterparts, hiring local laborers to assemble imported goods before putting them on trains to the rest of Europe or on ships back to China. If the amount of work and components used measure up to customs requirements, those products could be labeled Made in Italy.But some business leaders say that fully embracing the Belt and Road program would bring risks and could complicate efforts to bring other investment to Trieste.Vittorio Petrucco, chairman of I.CO.P, a construction company doing work in the port, said he and a former Microsoft consultant in Trieste, which has a vibrant research sector, had begun exploring his “dream” of building an underwater data center that would cool the servers of American tech giants.“I prefer to look West instead of East,” Mr. Petrucco said of his project, planned for an area near an old ironworks factory that looms above the pier envisioned for use by the Chinese. He added that both projects would take years to build and worried that all the American opposition and controversy surrounding the Belt and Road agreement would poison the waters for his proposal.“It’s sad,” he said, “but there’s nothing I can do about it.”Roberto Dipiazza, the mayor of Trieste, said that the United States could scuttle the deal if it really wanted to. He said that his city had much to gain from closer ties to China, but that the Chinese had even more to gain from his port’s deep harbors, customs benefits and rail yards.“We will find a point of agreement between China and the U.S.,” he said, showing off a Make America Great Again cap signed by President Trump that he had received as a gift. Italy, he noted, was caught “in the middle.”Some of Trieste’s most entrenched political players think Italy is compromised by such a position.Giulio Camber, a veteran lawmaker considered by many to be the political boss of Trieste, said he no longer had any interests in the port, and that his opposition to the deal was motivated by his distrust of what he called China’s Communist dictatorship.As light sliced in through the closed curtains of his office, illuminating his cigarette smoke, gilded furniture and oil paintings, Mr. Camber said the Chinese were behind many of the Turkish businesses exporting goods into the port. Beijing, he said, would feast on the Italians just as they did on the Greeks before them.“They are the weakest,” he said of the Mediterranean countries.Mr. Camber dismissed the local and national assurances about Chinese expansion, saying that Beijing would easily outmaneuver officials in Rome.“It’s like the world champion in chess playing with a couple of guys who play for fun at the Caffè Degli Specchi,” he said, referring to the famous cafe in Trieste’s main square, the Piazza Unità d’Italia. “You can’t imagine what the world’s best chess player is up to.”Follow Jason Horowitz on Twitter: @jasondhorowitz.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byStrategiesBy Jeff SommerDon’t blame Wall Street analysts, rank-and-file investors and journalists for failing to read corporate earnings reports from beginning to end.For one thing, the quarterly and annual reports churned out by publicly traded companies are forbiddingly long. Microsoft’s most recent annual report, known as a 10-K, was 130 pages; Apple’s was 96 pages; Amazon’s was 89 pages.For another, their prose is often dreary and repetitious. Filled with legal language aimed at satisfying securities regulators without alarming investors and driving down share prices, many earnings reports seem designed to be mind-numbingly boring.It’s the financial figures within these pages that are critically important. Is a company generating profits and cash, is it growing, is it borrowing too much or investing too little? Answers to these questions are often revealed in the numbers, but I’ve always thought it best to avoid spending much time on the words.There is evidence that most other people have made the same judgment, yet it turns out that we’ve been making a mistake. The turgid language in these dull corporate reports is actually sprinkled with important clues about major problems — and there is a way to get an inkling about them without actually having to read every word.Those are the main insights of “Lazy Prices,” a fascinating research paper featured in the November issue of The NBER Digest, a publication of the National Bureau of Economic Research. It found that corporate reports are, indeed, repetitious, but when the language in the current text varies a great deal from previous versions, it frequently signals trouble that will become evident several months later.Three economists — Lauren Cohen and Christopher Malloy of the Harvard Business School, and Quoc Nguyen of DePaul University — downloaded every quarterly and annual corporate report of every publicly traded American company from 1995 to 2014.They then sifted through thousands of reports, using a text analysis program. “We filtered out the reports that made a lot of wording changes over the previous year’s version,” Mr. Cohen said in an interview. “It turned out that when there are a lot of changes, there’s a good chance that something important is going on, and most of the time, it’s negative.”Among the reports that included many such changes, the researchers found a high probability that the companies’ share prices would decline several months after the reports appeared.Textual changes in the “risk factors” section were most likely to predict subsequent moves in share prices. (Corporate earnings reports are rigidly formatted to comply with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements and are divided into predictable sections.) When the researchers refined the analysis further, differentiating between textual changes that were positive and negative, the results were even more striking.The overwhelming majority — 86 percent — of reports with substantial wording changes were primarily negative in tone. But the minority that contained primarily positive language generally correlated with increases in share prices later.That brings up another important point: The stock market rarely responded to the subtle hints in the reports immediately. In fact, it typically took several months for whatever good or bad news was embedded in the reports to be widely understood — and to move the stock market.This delay means that there is a profit opportunity for those able to exploit it, the researchers said.When they constructed a hypothetical portfolio that shorted — or bet against — the companies with primarily negative word changes in the reports, while buying shares of the companies with positive changes, the portfolio outperformed the stock market by 22 percentage points per year.What is perhaps most remarkable is that they selected these investments without actually reading any of the reports or analyzing the stocks or the companies.“Changes to the 10-Ks predict future earnings, profitability, future news announcements, and even future firm-level bankruptcies,” the researchers said. That was the case even when the corporate reports contained no outright announcements about such matters.As a result, they said: “We find no announcement effect associated with these changes — with returns only accruing when the information is later revealed through news, events, or earnings — suggesting that investors are inattentive to these simple changes across the universe of public firms.”Investors are apparently still being inattentive. An excellent “Heard on The Street” column in The Wall Street Journal in June 2017 by Justin Lahart reported on an earlier version of the “Lazy Prices” findings. In that column, Mr. Lahart said explicitly that investors might profit by following the researchers’ methods. And in August, the open-source Quantopian investing site created an algorithm replicating the researchers’ methods, and found that the results remained robust: A new model portfolio outperformed the market.In other words, word changes in corporate reports still appear to be signaling subsequent changes in stock prices and few, if any people, have noticed. That suggests that scarcely anyone has been reading corporate reports thoroughly — and that scarcely anyone has read the “Lazy Prices” paper, either.To be fair, the clues unearthed by the researchers’ approach are fuzzy and imprecise at best.In November, for example, I asked Professor Cohen how I might make practical use of his insights.He suggested two things: “First, always download the previous version of a corporate report as well as the current version, so you can compare the language. Focus on the differences from year to year. Second, focus on one section, the ‘risk factors section.’”I did just that, looking mainly at the latest Apple corporate report, posted on its website on Nov. 5. There was plenty of new language describing the risks that Apple faced — risks that Apple executives discussed in November and disclosed more directly in a letter to shareholders on Jan. 2.These risks included the possibility of an economic slowdown in a place like China, the possibility of slowing iPhone sales, the threat of a trade war and the potential impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates. All of these risks have actually materialized and Apple shares have sunk, pulling down the overall stock market.But based on the language changes in the corporate report alone, was there a specific reason for investors to bid down Apple stock, or for a journalist to conclude that Apple was in serious trouble?I didn’t think so at the time, and I still don’t. The linguistic clues were another piece of evidence that needed to be evaluated and, perhaps, bolstered, by other research.Clues like that have real value, though. The “Lazy Prices” research will, at the very least, lead me to read these reports a little differently, in the hope of using them to unearth deeper truths. What’s more, until the “Lazy Prices” research is widely understood, it may be possible for some investors to profit from it.Follow Jeff Sommer on Twitter: @jeffsommerAdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWhen the commercials come on during the game, at least you’ll know Jason Bateman is trying to sell you something. By Sheila MarikarMs. Marikar is a Los Angeles-based writer. On Sunday, millions of Americans will hunker down in front of the nearest big screen to watch the Super Bowl and its roster of splashy, celebrity-studded advertisements. For brands, it’s a crucial stage: In our extremely fragmented media landscape, there’s no better way to reach a crowd.CBS is reportedly charging $5.1 million to $5.3 million for 30 seconds of commercial time during the game, and to make that kind of investment worth it, brands pour resources into formulating bits of theater that might get viewers talking (recall Budweiser’s eye-rollingly annoying “Whassup” guys and tear jerky Clydesdales). The absurd premises advanced by this year’s roster of Super Bowl ads are set to include Jason Bateman operating an elevator (brought to you by Hyundai), Christina Applegate tooling around town with a back-talking batch of candy (M&Ms), and Chance the Rapper dancing in an airplane hangar with the Backstreet Boys (Doritos).They’re fun, they’re silly and they’re hyped almost as much as the game itself. They’re why plenty of non-football fans (raising my hand) watch the Super Bowl. But above all, they’re clearly ads, which makes them seem almost quaint at a time when advertising has begun to take on much more subtle — and at times, stealthy — forms.A 2017 survey by the Association of National Advertisers found that 75 percent of marketers partake in “influencer marketing,” the practice of paying people with robust social media followings to promote a product, and 43 percent of them plan to spend more on it in the next year. Companies are increasingly targeting users of Instagram, the app once dominated by photos of babies and brunches, to hype their products. And as influencer marketing and the social network itself have evolved, the lines have blurred between sponsored ads (in which a company pays Instagram to push an advertisement to users); “influencers” tagging things that they’re paid to promote (Kim Kardashian West posting a selfie with a “flat tummy” smoothie); and regular folks shouting out brands they like, just because (like a friend tagging the design hotel where he stayed during a recent trip to Tokyo, compelling me to book a room there when I went to Japan).“The goal is to get the ads to be as relevant and interesting to you, as a consumer, as the content that you’ve elected to follow on your own,” said Vishal Shah, Instagram’s head of product.But the ads are not always obvious, and the people pushing products on Instagram may not be as immediately recognizable as the stars of Super Bowl commercials. Last year, Johnson & Johnson tapped teenage Instagram users with around 500 followers each to promote its latest line of Clean & Clear products, reasoning that these people would be seen as more trustworthy endorsers of the acne-combating collection of cleansers and creams than mainstream celebrities who hawk a variety of products. They were, after all “doing things that other kids responded to authentically,” a Johnson & Johnson representative told AdAge.Among companies with products to promote and Instagram influencers with themselves to promote, authenticity has become a goal, a thing that people try to reverse engineer either by turning the kid next door into a pitchman — in the case of Johnson & Johnson — or by posting what we’re supposed to believe are unfiltered accounts of their daily lives, like the makeup guru who posts a selfie in her mussed but not messy bed, claiming she “woke up like this.”“If you’re trying to be authentic, by definition, you’re not authentic — you’re manufacturing your online persona,” said Arianna Margulis, the artist behind the Instagram-based comic strip But Like Maybe (it’s like “Cathy” for millennials and Generation Z). Ms. Margulis says she follows the guidelines laid out by the Federal Trade Commission and discloses when she’s being paid for a post: she’s done advertisements for brands like Harper’s Bazaar, the dating app Hinge and Pizza Hut. But those guidelines aren’t always clear, and a frequently asked questions page on the F.T.C.’s website points to confusion around who qualifies as an influencer and what qualifies as an advertisement.Take this sample question: “If I post a picture of myself to Instagram and tag the brand of dress I’m wearing, but don’t say anything about the brand in my description of the picture, is that an endorsement? And, even if it is an endorsement, wouldn’t my followers understand that I only tag the brands of my sponsors?” (Short answer: Tagging a brand is an endorsement and may require disclosure. Don’t assume that your followers know anything.)Ms. Margulis’s line of work has become so sought after that people who are not paid in money, sneakers, or makeup are claiming sponsorships from brands like Nike and Sephora in their posts so as to “fake it ’til they make it” as social media influencers. “They’ll caption a post ‘#sponsored,’ even though they’re not sponsored, to either impress their followers or to impress companies that they want to get paid by,” said Brian Braiker, the editor in chief of the magazine AdAge.So murky is the morass of who’s hyping something because they genuinely like it and who’s doing it to get paid that, in 2017, the Instagram account SwearBy was launched to help “smart women find real and #notsponsored recommendations for the best products around.” I first found out about SwearBy when a beauty editor I follow announced that she had 10 boxes of hydrating face masks, lip balms and face cleansers from a luxury skin care brand to give away. Would-be winners had to follow SwearBy, follow her, like her post and post a comment naming a product they swear by. The post may not have been sponsored (although I wondered who paid for the 10 boxes) but it was an advertisement for many things: SwearBy, the luxury skin care brand, and the editor whose opinion carried so much weight that she was given 10 boxes of stuff to give out.There’s nothing wrong with non-celebrities trumpeting products because they like them or touting their accomplishments because want to get more work. But there is something hollow and dystopian about opening an app to see people you like and instead seeing people you like try to sell products to you. As Duncan Watts, a sociologist and principal researcher at Microsoft Research, put it: “There’s a problem when you try to mix friendship with economic transactions.” He compared it to how people in relationships don’t pay for sex, and you wouldn’t normally tip a friend who invites you to their home.All smart consumers question the veracity of ads like the ones that will appear during the Super Bowl — does anyone really think Chance and the Backstreet Boys chop it up over “Flamin’ Hot” chips? But on social media, we now have to question whether anything we see is actually authentic.Meanwhile, Instagram is making it easier to purchase products through the app. Mr. Shah intends for the network to become “the world’s largest personalized mall.” Thanks to increasingly smart algorithms, users will see more products they’re likely to like, and be able to buy them with a couple of taps of the thumb. At least on Super Bowl Sunday, those who want to avoid being marketed to will know exactly when to get up and refresh their drink or the chip bowl. They just might think twice about refreshing Instagram. Sheila Marikar is a Los Angeles-based writer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe problem with holding out for a perfect Brexit plan is that you can’t fix stupid. By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistLONDON — Politico reported the other day that the French European affairs minister, Nathalie Loiseau, had named her cat “Brexit.” Loiseau told the Journal du Dimanche that she chose the name because “he wakes me up every morning meowing to death because he wants to go out, and then when I open the door he stays in the middle, undecided, and then gives me evil looks when I put him out.”If you can’t take a joke you shouldn’t have come to London right now, because there is political farce everywhere. In truth, though, it’s not very funny. It’s actually tragic. What we’re seeing is a country that’s determined to commit economic suicide but can’t even agree on how to kill itself. It is an epic failure of political leadership.I say bring back the monarchy. Where have you gone, Queen Elizabeth II, a nation turns its lonely eyes to you.Seriously, the United Kingdom, the world’s fifth-largest economy — a country whose elites created modern parliamentary democracy, modern banking and finance, the Industrial Revolution and the whole concept of globalization — seems dead-set on quitting the European Union, the world’s largest market for the free movement of goods, capital, services and labor, without a well-conceived plan, or maybe without any plan at all.Both Conservative and Labour members of Parliament keep voting down one plan after another, looking for the perfect fix, the pain-free exit from the E.U. But there is none, because you can’t fix stupid. The entire Brexit choice was presented to the public in 2016 with utterly misleading simplicity. It was sold with a pack of lies about both the size of the benefits and the ease of implementation, and it continues to be pushed by Conservative hard-liners who used to care about business but are now obsessed with restoring Britain’s “sovereignty” over any economic considerations.They don’t seem to be listening at all to people like Tom Enders, C.E.O. of the aerospace giant Airbus, which employs more than 14,000 people in the U.K., with around 110,000 more local jobs connected to its supply chains. Enders has warned the political leadership here that if the U.K. just crashes out of the E.U. in the coming weeks, Airbus may be forced to make some “potentially very harmful decisions” about its operations in Britain.“Please don’t listen to the Brexiteers’ madness which asserts that ‘because we have huge plants here we will not move. …’ They are wrong,” he said. “And, make no mistake, there are plenty of countries out there who would love to build the wings for Airbus aircraft.”I understand the grievances of many of those who voted to leave the E.U. For starters, they felt swamped by E.U. immigrants. There are reportedly some 300,000 French citizens living in London, which would make it one of the biggest French cities in the world. I had a drink with a member of Parliament in the bar in the House of Commons on Tuesday, and as we sat down he whispered to me that “not a single person working in this whole building is British.”I also get the resentment of Brits at having regulations set by faceless E.U. bureaucrats in Brussels. And I get their resentment at the globalized urban elites, who those in the rural areas here believed looked down at them. And I get the squeeze on middle-class wages here that gets blamed, unfairly, on the E.U. and immigrants the way President Trump blames Mexicans. I get all of that.But I also get what it means to be a leader in the 21st century. And it sure doesn’t mean asserting your sovereignty over all other considerations or breaking out of the giant E.U. market, where the U.K. sends over 40 percent of its exports, without a serious national discussion of the costs and benefits.What do the most effective leaders today have in common? They wake up every morning and ask themselves the same questions: “What world am I living in? What are the biggest trends in this world? And how do I educate my citizens about this world and align my policies so more of my people can get the best out of these trends and cushion the worst?”So what world are we living in? For starters, we’re living in a world that is becoming so interconnected — thanks to digitization, the internet, broadband, mobile devices, the cloud and soon-to-be 5G wireless transmissions — that we are becoming interdependent to an unprecedented degree. In this world, growth increasingly depends on the ability of yourself, your community, your town, your factory, your school and your country to be connected to more and more of the flows of knowledge and investment — and not just rely on stocks of stuff.Over centuries, notes John Hagel, who currently co-heads Deloitte’s Center for the Edge, business has “been organized around stocks of knowledge as the basis for value creation. The key to creating economic value has been to acquire some proprietary knowledge stocks, aggressively protect those knowledge stocks and then efficiently extract the economic value from those knowledge stocks and deliver them to the market. The challenge in a more rapidly changing world is that knowledge stocks depreciate at an accelerating rate. In this kind of world, the key source of economic value shifts from stocks to flows.“The companies that will create the most economic value in the future,” Hagel says, “will be the ones that find ways to participate more effectively in a broader range of more diverse knowledge flows that can refresh knowledge stocks at an accelerating rate.”And yet Britain is ruled today by a party that wants to disconnect from a connected world. The notion that the U.K. will suddenly get a great free-trade deal from Trump as soon as it quits the E.U. is ludicrous. Trump believes in competitive nationalism, and the very reason he is promoting the breakup of the E.U. is that he believes America can dominate the E.U.’s individual economies much better than when they negotiate together as the single biggest market in the world.The second thing the best leaders understand is that in a world of simultaneous accelerations in technology and globalization, keeping your country as open as possible to as many flows as possible is advantageous for two reasons: You get all the change signals first and have to respond to them and you attract the most high-I.Q. risk-takers, who tend to be the people who start or advance new companies.In the U.S., who is the C.E.O. of Microsoft? Satya Nadella. Who is the C.E.O. of Google? Sundar Pichai. Who is the C.E.O. of Adobe? Shantanu Narayen. Who is the C.E.O. of Workday? Aneel Bhusri. Hello London? The best talent wants to go to the most open systems — open both to immigrants and trade — because that is where the most opportunities are. Britain is about to put up a big sign: GO AWAY.The wisest leaders also understand that all the big problems today are global problems, and they have only global solutions. I am talking about climate change, trade rules, technology standards and preventing excesses and contagion in financial markets. If your country wants to have a say in how those problems are solved — and your country’s name is not America, Russia, China or India — you need to be part of a wider coalition like the European Union. The U.K. membership in the E.U. has given it an outsize voice in world affairs.And there’s just one more thing the best leaders know: a little history. Trump is fine with a world of competitive European nationalisms, not a strong European Union. So is Vladimir Putin. So, it seems, are the Brexiteers. How quickly they’ve all forgotten that the E.U. and NATO were built to prevent the very competitive nationalism that ran riot in Europe in the 20th century and brought us two world wars.Sorry to be so despondent, but I went to graduate school here on a Marshall scholarship from the British government, was married here and started as a journalist on Fleet Street in London. I like the place. But this is not the reasonably competent British government I grew up with. It’s being led by a ship of fools — a Conservative Party bloc that is now radical in its obsession with leaving Europe and a Labour Party that has gone Marxist. If the people here can’t force their politicians to compromise with one another and with reality (there’s still a glimmer of hope that this might happen), there is going to be a crackup of the British political system and some serious economic pain. This is scary.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported by Life is a lot easier when you can plug in to any socket.By Andrew Russell and Lee VinselDr. Russell and Dr. Vinsel study technology.Our modern existence depends on things we can take for granted. Cars run on gas from any gas station, the plugs for electrical devices fit into any socket, and smartphones connect to anything equipped with Bluetooth. All of these conveniences depend on technical standards, the silent and often forgotten foundations of technological societies.The objects that surround us were designed to comply with standards. Consider the humble 8-by-16-inch concrete block, the specifications of which are defined in the Masonry Society’s “Building Code Requirements and Specification for Masonry Structures.”This book distills centuries of knowledge about the size and thickness of blocks, seismic design requirements and the use of materials like concrete, glass and mortar. Professionals worked through committees organized by the American Concrete Institute, American Society of Civil Engineers and the Masonry Society from 1977 to 1989 to foster consensus around this single national standard.The number of technical standards that go into some products is astonishing, and the complexity of the methods used to create these standards is perhaps even more remarkable. A 2010 study found that a laptop computer incorporates 251 standards. Companies such as I.B.M. and Microsoft created some of these standards — but only 20 percent of them. The other 80 percent of the laptop’s standards were developed by private or nongovernmental organizations that facilitate collaboration and cooperation among technical experts. These facts should prompt some reflection about the exercise of power in a technological society: Amid concerns about the excesses of market power and government regulation, nobody seems to worry much about the private groups of experts who created 80 percent of the laptop’s standards. Standards created this way, known as the “voluntary consensus” process, are ubiquitous. They range from technologies like electrical plugs, lumber and concrete, to rules and certifications for food safety and environmental sustainability, to more personal matters such as definitions of health and disease.The basic irony of standards is the simple fact that there is no standard way to create a standard, nor is there even a standard definition of “standard.” There are, however, longstanding ways that industries and nations coordinate standardization efforts. In the United States, the system of voluntary consensus standards is coordinated by ANSI, the American National Standards Institute.The standards-development organizations accredited by ANSI follow a bottom-up process. It begins when someone proposes a draft standard, which then goes through a period of public comment. A panel of stakeholders and interested parties then seeks to resolve points of friction. Eventually this process, which often takes years, results in a final published standard. ANSI was first known as the American Engineering Standards Committee, which was created to address rampant incompatibility throughout American industry. (It was eventually reconstituted in 1966 and took on the name ANSI in 1969.) Its founders came from engineering organizations and departments of the federal government that all published their own standards, which were of limited value because they varied from group to group. The consequences could be catastrophic, as with the 1904 fire that destroyed much of downtown Baltimore: Buildings could have been saved if fire departments from neighboring cities had hoses that fit Baltimore’s fire hydrants.The Engineering Standards Committee’s solution to technical incompatibility was to get organized. At its first meeting, in 1918, it created a process where people could work out the details of technical specifications and agree to carry them out. The structure of the standardization panels balanced producers and consumers — that is, makers and users of technologies — so that no single company could dictate the outcome. This method incorporated advice from British engineers, who had created a similar organization a decade earlier, and reflected lessons from World War I, where cooperation among engineers led to technological and humanitarian accomplishments. During the war, Herbert Hoover, who was then head of the United States Food Administration, coordinated farming and business interests, as well as the automobile, railroad and shipping industries, to provide food for America and its allies.The consensus-driven approach had two clear advantages over existing alternatives. First, a forum to bring “all interested parties” into alignment reduced duplication and wasted effort. Second, the absence of state coercion to enforce standards meant that engineers and executives had strong incentives to resolve conflicts before they published a standard, lest they face government intervention down the road. The success of their efforts would depend on the voluntary adoption of standards. The consensus process was well suited for a society where technological and economic progress was within reach — all it needed to do was to find ways to cooperate. This was no easy task. The standards committee’s longtime secretary, Paul Gough Agnew, looked back wearily at the “endless discussions” that set the stage for the first meeting in 1918. One of the group’s founders, the electrical engineer Comfort Adams, observed, “Fear and jealousy, as well as ignorance, were the chief obstacles which had to be overcome.”Over the past century, standardization has expanded immensely. Today, private transnational organizations create and revise thousands of consensus standards every year. Although the voluntary consensus method has been effective, it has never been perfect. For example, “consensus” is often a euphemism. Nasty disagreements can derail the process. Companies that agree on standards one day turn around and sue one another the next. In some industries, companies can make fortunes by defying established standards — think of innovative products from Apple, or bold designs from the leaders of the fashion industry. Standardization also creates losers, and it can be very costly to invest in the losing side of “standards wars” like VHS versus Betamax, or Blu-ray versus HD DVD.Access to standards also poses challenges. Since the consensus-building process is costly, organizations like ANSI often try to cover expenses by selling or licensing access to standards documents. For example, the book of standards for concrete blocks and masonry structures costs $150. This business model strikes many critics as unjust, since private standards can be built into regulations, yet sometimes only citizens who pay can look at them.The American system of standardization is driven by industry, but we should not lose sight of the crucial role played by government agencies. The National Bureau of Standards, now known as the National Institute of Standards and Technology, contributed research and ideas to the standards committee’s efforts from the beginning. And governments often mandate standards around air pollution and automotive and aviation safety because industry did not adopt them on a voluntary consensus basis. Federal air pollution standards that led to the widespread adoption of the catalytic converter and reduced some automotive emissions by 99 percent worked through force, not bottom-up consensus.Standards have always struggled with an image problem. Critics worry that a standardized world is dull and mediocre, a nightmare of conformity and Kafkaesque bureaucracy. Yet the champions of standardization insist that standards create the foundations for a better world. Albert Whitney, who was the standards committee’s chairman from 1922 to 1924, argued that many accomplishments of civilization involved “the fixation of advances.” The committee’s motto in the 1920s declared: “Standardization is dynamic, not static; it means not to stand still, but to move forward together.” In an age of breathless enthusiasm for the new and “disruptive,” it’s worth remembering the mundane agreements embodied in the things around us. It’s very ordinariness and settledness of standards that enable us to survive, and to move ahead.Andrew Russell, the dean of arts and sciences at the State University of New York Polytechnic Institute, and Lee Vinsel, an assistant professor of science and technology studies at Virginia Tech, are working on a book about innovation and maintenance.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA pioneer of computer science for work combining statistics and linguistics, and an advocate for women in the field.Since 1851, obituaries in The New York Times have been dominated by white men. With Overlooked, we’re adding the stories of remarkable people whose deaths went unreported in The Times.By Nellie BowlesWhen most scientists were trying to make people use code to talk to computers, Karen Sparck Jones taught computers to understand human language instead.In so doing, her technology established the basis of search engines like Google. A self-taught programmer with a focus on natural language processing, and an advocate for women in the field, Sparck Jones also foreshadowed by decades Silicon Valley’s current reckoning, warning about the risks of technology being led by computer scientists who were not attuned to its social implications.“A lot of the stuff she was working on until five or 10 years ago seemed like mad nonsense, and now we take it for granted,” said John Tait, a longtime friend who works with the British Computer Society.Sparck Jones’s seminal 1972 paper in the Journal of Documentation laid the groundwork for the modern search engine. In it, she combined statistics with linguistics — an unusual approach at the time — to establish formulas that embodied principles for how computers could interpret relationships between words.By 2007, Sparck Jones said, “pretty much every web engine uses those principles.”“Anything that does index-term weighting using any kind of statistical information will be using a weighting function that I published in 1972,” she said in an interview with the British Computer Society.Karen Ida Boalth Sparck Jones was born on Aug. 26, 1935, in Huddersfield, England, a textile manufacturing town. Her parents were Alfred Owen Jones, a chemistry lecturer, and Ida Sparck, who worked for the Norwegian government while in exile in London during World War II.When studying history and then philosophy (the department was then called moral sciences) at Cambridge, she met the head of the Cambridge Language Research Unit, Margaret Masterman, who would inspire her to enter the field. Sparck Jones later described her as “a very strange and interesting woman” who, unusual for the time, used her maiden name professionally.Sparck Jones, too, kept her name when she married Roger Needham, a fellow computer scientist, in 1958, saying, “It maintains a permanent existence of your own.”Sparck Jones started working for Ms. Masterman. She wanted to figure out how to program a computer to understand words that could have many meanings (for example “field”) and set about programming a massive thesaurus.“All words in a natural language are ambiguous; they have multiple senses,” she said in an oral history interview for the History Center of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. “How do you find out which sense they’ve got in any particular use?”In 1964, Sparck Jones published “Synonymy and Semantic Classification,” which is now seen as a foundational paper in the field of natural language processing.In 1972, she introduced the concept of inverse document frequency, which measures the extent to which a rare term that appears in a particular document should be used to determine the term’s importance; it, too, is a foundation of modern search engines because it helps dictate where the document should appear in search results.Sparck Jones began working on early speech recognition systems in the 1980s.Most mornings and afternoons, she and her husband, a pioneer in software security, debated theory in the Cambridge department’s tea room. Their home in Coton, just west of Cambridge, was full of books, art and found items, like an interesting piece of driftwood or a Victorian-era knife grinder. They had a second house in the same village, using it to store the overflow of their book collection and as her artist’s workshop. One of her artworks was hung at the Microsoft Research Lab.Sailing was another passion of Sparck Jones and Needham. They restored an 1872 vintage sailboat called Fanny of Cowes and raced it against other old boats along the east coast of England. They chose not to have children.“They wanted their intellectual life,” said Andrew Herbert, her friend and a fellow computer scientist. “They were clearly deeply in love with each other all the way through their life.”Sparck Jones had a booming voice and a puckish sense of humor. At work, she usually wore a simple uniform: bluejeans, red sweater, white blouse. She also wore a brooch, which she made from stones and part of a horseshoe. When she had to bike to a formal dinner, as one often did at Cambridge, she was known to use clothing pegs to pin her dress to the handlebars.In 1982, the British government tapped Sparck Jones to work on the Alvey Program, an initiative to encourage more computer science research across the country. In 1993, she wrote, with Julia R. Galliers, “Evaluating Natural Language Processing Systems,” the seminal textbook on the topic.Sparck Jones became president of the Association for Computational Linguistics, an international group for professionals in the field, in 1994. She became a full-time professor at Cambridge in 1999 — and it had bothered her that it took so long. For all the years before, she had been on contract with the university, an untenured and lower-status form of academic employment referred to as “living on soft money.”“Cambridge was in many ways not user-friendly, in the sense of women-friendly,” she said of the delay.Sparck Jones died of cancer on April 4, 2007. She was 71. Though she did not receive an obituary in The Times, her husband did, in 2003.Today, researchers are still citing her formulas. Ideas she wrote about are now being put into practice as artificial intelligence research becomes more prevalent.“It points to how far ahead of her time she was, how consequential her work was, how little it was valued for the first 20 years,” said Martha Palmer, a professor in the Linguistics and Computer Science departments at the University of Colorado.Sparck Jones mentored a generation of researchers, male and female, and came up with a slogan: “Computing is too important to be left to men.”She was ahead of her time in another respect. Decades before Silicon Valley was having its moral reckoning, Sparck Jones cautioned engineers to think of their work’s impact on society.“There is an interaction between the context and the programming task itself,” she said. “You don’t need a fundamental philosophical discussion every time you put finger to keyboard, but as computing is spreading so far into people’s lives, you need to think about these things.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byHis tweets criticize Facebook and Google, but the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department is making life easier for potential monopolists in Silicon Valley.By Matthew Buck and Sandeep VaheesanMr. Buck and Mr. Vaheesan work for the Open Markets Institute.At his Senate confirmation hearing, Attorney General William Barr signaled an interest in confronting the power of big tech corporations like Facebook and Google. As Mr. Barr put it, a lot “of people wonder how such huge behemoths that now exist in Silicon Valley have taken shape under the nose of the antitrust enforcers.” And since taking office, President Trump has repeatedly attacked America’s biggest technology corporations, especially Amazon, Facebook and Google. Among other accusations, he has charged Amazon with ripping off the Post Office and Google with  censoring conservative users. He recently criticized Facebook, Google and Twitter for “ridiculous” bias in favor of Democrats. By most appearances, Mr. Trump is a foe of big tech.Mr. Barr, however, will find that those “huge behemoths” will continue to dominate, because, in part, the administration’s chief antitrust enforcer is their champion. On top of granting tech platforms huge windfalls in his tax reform law, Mr. Trump appointed a friend of big tech, Makan Delrahim, to lead the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. Mr. Delrahim has consistently promoted the interests of the biggest tech companies.While we believe Mr. Delrahim, a veteran corporate defense lawyer and antitrust official in the George W. Bush administration, was correct on the merits in trying to stop the AT&T/Time Warner merger, that action was an outlier. In a Senate hearing in December, he boasted that he “strengthened” the Justice Department’s amicus brief program as a means of reshaping antitrust law. In its briefs, which represent the views of the federal government as an expert in antitrust law and are influential in court, the department has supported legal interpretations that would make Amazon, Google, Facebook and other dominant firms more powerful. On top of looking into possible procedural improprieties between the president and Mr. Delrahim, Congress should demand an explanation for — and put a stop to — Mr. Delrahim’s under-the-radar effort to revise antitrust law.In the most prominent case, Apple v. Pepper, the Supreme Court will decide, any day now, whether ordinary Americans can hold tech platforms accountable. The Antitrust Division filed briefs siding with Apple. (Our organization, the Open Markets Institute, filed an amicus brief in support of Pepper.) In its briefs, the Justice Department argued that iPhone users should not be able to sue Apple for monopolizing the sale of iPhone apps. Although the text of federal law grants everyone (consumers, workers and businesses) the right to sue antitrust violators for damages, the Justice Department is seeking to restrict private citizens’ ability to hold corporate power to account. In contrast, a bipartisan coalition of 31 states filed a brief endorsing the right of all consumers to obtain compensation and be made whole.The Justice Department took an even more radically pro-monopolist position in a lower court case. In Viamedia v. Comcast, the Seventh Circuit in Chicago is now deciding whether Comcast, which both operates and competes in the clearinghouse for TV advertisements in Chicago and Detroit, illegally monopolized this clearinghouse when it blocked Viamedia, an ad management company. Through such “refusals to deal,” monopolists can suppress emerging competition or extend their dominance into new markets.The government advised the court to adopt the 2013 ruling by Judge Neil Gorsuch, then on the 10th Circuit, in Novell v. Microsoft, which broadly insulates a monopolist from the charge that it improperly cut off rivals’ access to a good or service they need to compete. Under Novell, if someone sues a monopolist for refusing to deal with competitors, the conduct is illegal only if the monopolist “sacrificed profits” in the process and that its sole effect was to hurt competition. This standard would make stopping “refusals to deal” virtually impossible.The Antitrust Division’s position in Viamedia is especially helpful to Google and Facebook, whose core services are free to users. Consider Facebook’s 2013 decision to cut off users’ friend lists from Vine, a video streaming app launched by Twitter. Thanks to Facebook’s move, users of Vine could not invite friends to join the app. Under the standard endorsed by the Justice Department, Facebook would be protected from legal liability for stifling Vine unless an antitrust enforcer could show that Facebook sacrificed profits in this predatory act. Because Facebook does not charge users, this would be a tall order for the government, excluded rivals and injured consumers.Along with these pro-monopoly briefs, the Antitrust Division’s leadership has publicly expressed almost uncritical admiration for technology giants. Disregarding both congressional intent in enacting the antitrust laws and the latest evidence on the economic and political harms from corporate concentration, our top antimonopoly enforcers have been fawning over monopoly.Mr. Delrahim and his deputies routinely praise the biggest tech companies and adopt their legal rationalizations. In a speech in Mexico City in November, he asserted on the basis of little evidence that “market power is a motivating factor for investment in a free-market economy” and disparaged rules to protect competitive markets as akin to “breaking a man’s leg to make him run faster.” Mr. Delrahim recently hypothesized that “large digital platforms have grown because they provide innovative and disruptive services that consumers seem to like and want to use” and expressed nationalistic pride in the dominant tech platforms being American. Contrary to these claims, however, actions by the European Commission and documents published by Britain’s Parliament indicate that the tech platforms have used abusive practices to maintain and extend their power.In December, Andrew Finch, the Antitrust Division’s principal deputy assistant attorney general, contended that “consumers often benefit from concentration” and dismissed calls to break up or regulate tech platforms as “drastic.”The division dresses up its actions in the rhetoric of humility. In a June 2018 address, Barry Nigro, a deputy assistant attorney general at the Antitrust Division, said that when enforcing antitrust law, “First, we should do no harm,” and warned, “we should be wary of trying to prescribe the correct path forward.”Yet, as the Justice Department’s top antitrust enforcers proclaim humility and practice restraint when it comes to monopolies, they do not extend this courtesy to elected officials. Cities and states seeking to structure markets through the democratic process can expect hectoring, not humility, from the department.The Justice Department has, to the benefit of Uber and Lyft, interfered with municipal efforts to improve the lives of ride-hailing drivers. These drivers, on average, earn less than the local minimum wage in many places. In November 2017, the Department of Justice (as well as the Federal Trade Commission) filed a brief against Seattle’s law granting collective bargaining rights to ride-hailing drivers.The Justice Department has also weighed in on the legality and wisdom of state rules on, for example, the practice of law. In a statement of interest in a case challenging a Florida bar’s rule, the Antitrust Division paid tribute to “new competition from mobile platforms that can profoundly change an industry.” This type of free-standing policy lecture voices a hostility to democratic market structuring and is outside the division’s statutory duty to police corporate cartels, mergers and monopolies.When trying to understand the Trump administration’s position on tech monopolists, ignore Mr. Trump’s tweets and look to what his antitrust enforcers do and say. Mr. Trump’s antitrust chief is hindering the ability of federal, state and local governments and the public to tame the power of tech giants. Instead of this deference to corporate power and condescension to our elected representatives, the department should be confronting monopolies in tech and elsewhere and respecting the policy choices of state and local officials.Matthew Buck is a reporter-researcher with the Open Markets Institute. From 2017 to 2018, he worked as a paralegal specialist in the Antitrust Division's Criminal I Section, helping to investigate criminal cartel activity. Sandeep Vaheesan is legal director of the Open Markets Institute.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article mischaracterized an amicus brief by the Justice Department in Viamedia v. Comcast. It was filed “in support of neither party”; the government didn't side with Comcast.AdvertisementChevron, Occidental Petroleum and BHP have invested in Carbon Engineering, a start-up developing technology to take carbon out of the atmosphere.Fuel made from carbon dioxide that Carbon Engineering removed from the air in a pilot project in Squamish, British Columbia.CreditCreditAlana Paterson for The New York TimesSupported byBy Clifford KraussSQUAMISH, British Columbia — Everyone knows an electric fan can make people feel cooler on a steamy day. But could fans moderate the planet’s rising temperatures?Some of the world’s biggest fossil fuel companies would like to find out.Chevron, Occidental Petroleum and the Australian mining giant BHP this year have invested in Carbon Engineering, a small Canadian company that claims to be on the verge of a breakthrough in solving a critical climate change puzzle: removing carbon already in the atmosphere.At its pilot project in Squamish, an old lumber town about 30 miles north of Vancouver, the company is using an enormous fan to suck large amounts of air into a scrubbing vessel designed to extract carbon dioxide. The gas can then be buried or converted into a clean-burning — though expensive — synthetic fuel.Investing in Carbon Engineering and other carbon-reduction initiatives is part of an emerging effort by fossil-fuel industries to remain relevant and profitable in a warming world. With electric cars and solar and wind power becoming increasingly affordable, executives acknowledge that business as usual could put their companies at risk.Already, fossil-fuel companies face a barrage of lawsuits, investor resolutions and regulations prompting them to invest more in clean energy. Advocacy groups are also pressing companies and lawmakers to keep oil and natural gas in the ground by challenging hydraulic fracturing, especially in Europe, and fighting pipelines meant to transport production from Canada’s oil sands.“This is about recognizing that climate change poses significant risks to all economic sectors,” Fiona Wild, BHP’s vice president for sustainability and climate change, said about the company’s $6 million investment in Carbon Engineering. “Climate change is no longer seen as a fringe issue. It’s a business risk that requires a business response.”Of course, big energy companies continue to drill for oil and gas and are pushing the Trump administration and other governments to open more territory to exploration.But some businesses have signaled that they are changing. A few companies, including Royal Dutch Shell and BP, are linking compensation to emissions reductions. Equinor, the Norwegian oil company, plans to increase spending on clean energy to 15 to 20 percent of its capital investment by 2030, up from 5 percent now.Carbon Engineering’s pilot on the rocky shores of Howe Sound is one of several carbon “direct-air-capture” ventures being attempted around the world. It is still a small effort, but its backers say it could play an important role in arresting climate change.Much of the work is done in an old industrial warehouse of corrugated metal adorned with faded graffiti, a structure once used by a company that made chemicals for the pulp industry. The temporary offices are decidedly makeshift, with the bathrooms entered from outside. No carbon is actually being pulled out of the atmosphere permanently because the company is still in testing mode.Chevron and Occidental, which have each taken seats on Carbon Engineering’s board, refused to disclose their investments. The company says it raised a total of $68 million in its most recent funding round to expand the pilot and develop its first commercial plant.Critics of fossil-fuel companies say such investments are so modest as to amount to little more than a public-relations stunt.“That’s chump change for these guys,” said Dan Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, an environmental organization in Washington. “I don’t see any epiphanies.”But other experts disagree. “It could be greenwashing, but so what?” said Dieter Helm, a professor of energy policy at Oxford and the author of “Burn Out: The Endgame for Fossil Fuels.” “If money is being spent on research and development to develop ways to sequester carbon, that is a good thing.”Executives at Carbon Engineering said they welcomed investments by fossil-fuel companies not only for the money but also for their engineering and lobbying skills.“I have great big brothers now who are looking after me,” said Steve Oldham, Carbon Engineering’s chief executive. “Initially companies wanted to show that they were thinking of being green. Now you are seeing action.”The company said its commercial plants would have banks of large fans, 33 feet in diameter, to collect air and run it through a complex chemical process.Carbon Engineering, a small Canadian company, has developed methods to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere using “direct-air-capture” technology. It is one of several companies around the world working on the technique. The carbon dioxide may be reprocessed into fuel, or buried for disposal.Direct-air-capture technologyPURE CO2 GASTYPICALATMOSPHERICAIRMay be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel.HYDROXIDESOLUTION1234WATERCO2-RICHCARBONATESOLUTIONCALCIUMCARBONATEPELLETSCALCIUMOXIDECALCIUMOXIDE SLURRYAIR WITH MOST OFTHE CO2 REMOVED1. Air intake2. Pellet reactor3. Calciner4. SlakerLarge fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution. The carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate. The calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide.Water is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process.Direct-air-capture technologyPURE CO2 GASTYPICALATMOSPHERICAIRMay be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel.HYDROXIDESOLUTION1234WATERCO2-RICHCARBONATESOLUTIONCALCIUMCARBONATEPELLETSCALCIUMOXIDECALCIUMOXIDE SLURRYAIR WITH MOST OFTHE CO2 REMOVED1. Air intake2. Pellet reactor3. Calciner4. SlakerThe carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate. The calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide.Water is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process.Large fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution. Direct-air-capture technology1. Air intakeTYPICALATMOSPHERICAIRHYDROXIDESOLUTIONLarge fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution. CO2-RICHCARBONATESOLUTIONAIR WITHMOST OFTHE CO2REMOVED2. Pellet reactorThe carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate. CALCIUMCARBONATEPELLETS3. CalcinerThe calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide.CALCIUMOXIDESLURRYPURE CO2 GASMay be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel.CALCIUMOXIDE4. SlakerWater is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process.WATERBy The New York Times | Source: Carbon EngineeringThe air will be pushed through honeycombed plastic channels coated with potassium hydroxide that attaches itself to carbon dioxide. More chemicals will be added to produce tiny white pellets containing carbon. The pellets will then be heated to more than 1,600 degrees to form carbon dioxide gas.In one kind of plant the company hopes to build, the captured carbon dioxide could be injected underground, where it would be harmless unless some of it leaked back into the atmosphere. Mr. Oldham asserts that each such installation could eventually take as much carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere annually as 40 million trees.In another kind of facility, captured carbon dioxide would be combined with hydrogen extracted from water to make synthetic fuel that can be processed into gasoline, diesel or jet fuel. The energy needed to produce hydrogen would come from wind turbines and solar panels to limit emissions.The company’s synthetic fuel would be more expensive than conventional gasoline. Production costs could be about $4 a gallon, according to Carbon Engineering, compared with more than $2.70-a-gallon average retail price in the United States. But it could still be attractive to countries that spend tens of billions of dollars on crude imports, like India and Japan. Regulations taxing carbon could also make the fuel more attractive.The company says its synthetic fuels could be used in standard car, truck and plane engines, and would cause less air pollution than traditional fuels.Burning Carbon Engineering’s fuel would release carbon dioxide, but it would not increase greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by much or at all because the process would be recycling carbon that was already in the air, executives said.Early investors in Carbon Engineering include the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and N. Murray Edwards, executive chairman of Canadian Natural Resources, a big producer of oil sands, a heavy oil that has a large carbon footprint.“Oil and gas companies have to wonder about their future,” said Michael Webber, an energy professor at the University of Texas at Austin. “They know that someday the energy mix will be different. So there are a lot of motivations for this investment.”Occidental wants to use the technology to find a sustainable supply of carbon dioxide that it can use to inject in its oil fields to increase pressure and extract more oil while also sequestering the carbon. The company is already the largest injector in the industry, but it now re-injects carbon that was found in natural underground deposits — providing little or no environmental benefit. By recycling carbon taken from the air, it hopes to bury as much carbon as its fuels emit, or even more. As an added benefit, there is a federal tax credit for sequestering carbon.“Every oil company should be striving to become carbon neutral,” said Vicki Hollub, Occidental’s chief executive. “Ultimately, we think we can be carbon negative. Addressing climate change is a turning point for the industry.”Chevron is seeking to meet a different immediate need. California requires refiners and other distributors to meet progressively declining targets of carbon in their fuels through 2030. Chevron, which is based in San Ramon, Calif., has two big refineries in the state that could use the synthetic fuel.“We have a need for low-carbon fuels,” said Barbara Burger, president of Chevron Technology Ventures. “The world needs transportation fuels and the public desires them, but they have an expectation that we lower the carbon content. And this is one of the options to do that.”But ramping up the ambitious ideas put forward by Carbon Engineering and other companies into projects large enough to have an important environmental impact will take considerable investment.Mr. Oldham said one of his carbon capture and sequestration plants would remove one million tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere annually, a small fraction of the more than 33 billion tons humanity emits in a year. The sequestration process would cost roughly $100 per ton, which in Occidental’s model could be offset in part by the increased oil production it would enable. The carbon could also be used to make cement and other building materials.But in case of an acute global climate emergency, governments would probably have to step in to hasten removal of carbon from the atmosphere. Mr. Oldham said the cost of capturing and sequestering all the carbon needed to stop climate change would require trillions of dollars.The company’s synthetic fuel could also struggle to find markets because of its cost.David Keith, an applied physicist at Harvard who founded Carbon Engineering and sits on its board, said the synthetic fuel would be most useful for trucks, ships and planes, while cars and other smaller vehicles would more likely be powered by batteries in the future.“There is no way we are beating oil from the ground in a head-to-head competition without regulation,” Mr. Keith said, referring to carbon taxes and other environmental policies. If there is sufficient political will to deeply cut emissions, he added, “I think you will see a large amount of this technology in the next decade or two.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byat warBy John IsmayThree hours after nightfall on Sept. 15, 1942, the U.S.S. Wasp, a United States Navy aircraft carrier, slipped beneath the waves 350 miles southeast of Guadalcanal. Hit by two or possibly three torpedoes from a Japanese submarine, the crippled ship was abandoned, then torpedoed by an American destroyer to send it to the bottom, approximately 14,000 feet below.In the early morning hours of Jan. 14, 2019, researchers laid eyes on the Wasp for the first time in 76 years. The news of that discovery and the story of the team who found the wreck was published on March 13 in a feature article by Ed Caesar in The Times Magazine.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]Aboard a 250-foot-long research vessel called the Petrel, originally built for servicing oil fields, a group of explorers, historians, divers and submersible pilots have been combing the South Pacific for the graves of American warships like the Wasp since 2017. Funded by Paul Allen, a co-founder of Microsoft who died in October and who wanted to find these ships as a way to honor his father’s military service in World War II, the ship’s state-of-the-art technology allows for faster and more efficient searches than were possible even a decade ago.During the Marine Corps’ fierce battle for Guadalcanal, the Wasp was part of a convoy delivering reinforcements to the island. While the Wasp was in transit, the Japanese submarine I-19 fired several torpedoes at the aircraft carrier in quick succession. Navy officials are not completely sure if two or three of those torpedoes hit the Wasp. Other torpedoes in that salvo hit the destroyer U.S.S. O’Brien and the battleship U.S.S. North Carolina nearby.Japanese torpedoes of that era ran just below the surface and had large explosive warheads that detonated on contact with their target. When hit, multiple explosions rocked the Wasp and started fires that began to consume the ship from the inside out.Unable to save the ship, the Wasp’s crew abandoned the still-floating aircraft carrier, knowing that it would most likely sink on its own within hours. To speed that process, American Navy officers scuttled the carrier by firing torpedoes from a warship in their naval convoy.Many underwater explorers rely on something called a side-scan sonar device: Towed behind a ship, it sends out acoustic waves to its left and right that bounce off the seafloor. An umbilical cord connected to the device sends a stream of data back to the ship that researchers monitor for anomalies that could be ship remains.When Robert Ballard, a reserve naval officer and oceanographer, went looking for the Titanic in 1985, he knew side-scan sonar would not be helpful because the seafloor in that part of the North Atlantic was littered with boulders deposited in the last ice age, which would clutter the incoming data. He towed a camera instead. Rather than looking for the shipwreck itself, he did something that revolutionized underwater searches: He looked for the debris field ejected from Titanic as it sank — which would be a much larger target. The strategy worked.The technology aboard the Petrel takes Ballard’s early work a step further. It relies on a sensor — called an autonomous underwater vehicle, or A.U.V. — that propels and guides itself. This device can dive as deep as 18,000 feet as it follows a preprogrammed route and then returns to the surface on its own. Once it is craned back aboard, crew members pull data from the vehicle that researchers can quickly analyze.After its seventh A.U.V. run looking for the Wasp, the Petrel team found the ship.The amount of seafloor the A.U.V. takes in is immense. On a typical run, the uncrewed, submarinelike device follows a track six miles long, skimming just 260 feet above the seafloor while sending out low-frequency sonar waves to its left and right. In a single mission, it can cover about 40 square nautical miles of seafloor.Once all the imagery is downloaded from the A.U.V. and uploaded into the Petrel’s computers, team members see a graphic representation of the entire search area and can quickly identify any promising targets. If they believe they have found debris or the hull of the sunken ship, they then return to the exact spot and send an uncrewed remotely operated vehicle outfitted with manipulator arms and high-resolution cameras to examine the object.The Petrel team was lucky that the Wasp went down in a relatively flat and muddy part of the ocean, where things like sunken airplanes and ships clearly stand out along the seafloor. Such areas are relatively rare in that part of ocean because of its proximity to the Pacific’s “Ring of Fire” — a band of volcanoes both underwater and on land that spans the Earth’s crust.Petrel crew members like Paul Mayer, who pilots the ship’s remotely operated vehicle, scour through records at the National Archives, working with employees at the Naval History and Heritage Command in Washington who maintain a database of more than 2,500 shipwrecks and 14,000 sunken aircraft. Ship’s logbooks, surviving charts and witness testimonies all aid in deciding where to search.Paul Allen’s original goal was to find the U.S.S. Indianapolis, a heavy cruiser sunk by a Japanese submarine during World War II. While many of the ship’s crew members survived the torpedo attack, hundreds died from exposure, drowning or shark attacks while awaiting rescue. Allen’s crew found the Indianapolis in August 2017. Since Allen’s death from non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, his team aboard the Petrel has continued its quest to find other sunken warships from the war in the Pacific.The Navy has no intention to touch the wreck at all. Its interest is in studying the Wasp and other wrecks the Petrel has found, in part to assess the damage the ships suffered and to see what lessons can be applied to how the service builds ships in the future.The Wasp is sitting upright on the bottom of the Pacific, “in pretty deep mud,” says Sam Cox, a retired admiral who heads the Navy’s historical department. “The mud actually comes up to about where the water line was, so you can’t see where the actual torpedoes hit.”According to Cox, the Wasp was one of the most important ships of the Pacific Fleet in the early days of the war — a time when the Navy had only a few operational aircraft carriers available to help stop the Imperial Japanese Navy. When the Wasp was sunk in September 1942, it left the U.S.S. Hornet as the sole operational carrier in the Pacific, until repairs on the U.S.S. Enterprise were completed and the ship returned to action.The Hornet was sunk not long after the Wasp, during the Battle of Santa Cruz on Oct. 26, 1942. The Petrel crew found it too, on the same trip, resting on the bottom about 400 miles northeast of Guadalcanal.“Some folks say: ‘Why do you want to talk about a wreck? You know you lost that battle,’” Cox says. “It has to do with the sacrifice, the valor of U.S. sailors. These were at that time mostly professional sailors; the draft had not been in effect for that long.”According to Cox, illegal salvage operations in the Java Sea and the South China Sea have destroyed some British and Dutch ships from World War II that sank in relatively shallow water. Their hulls were turned into scrap metal. And American warships have not been immune — the wrecks of the submarine U.S.S. Perch and the destroyer U.S.S. Pope have disappeared sometime in the last two or three years. “The only good news is that neither one of them went down with any of their crewmen,” Cox says. “So it was a case of they salvaged U.S. Navy property, but we don’t know who did it.”Sitting in 14,000 feet of water, the Wasp is not in danger of being illegally salvaged. But Cox says he expects that the Navy will periodically visit the carrier and other known wrecks to ensure they remain untouched.One ship Cox says is still at risk is the U.S.S. Houston, a cruiser that sank on March 1, 1942, with about 600 crew members aboard. The wreck sits only about 120 feet down in Indonesian territorial waters, and the United States is trying to get the site designated as a maritime conservation zone, so it can have legal protection under Indonesian law.John Ismay is a staff writer who covers armed conflict for The New York Times Magazine. He is based in Washington.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of At War delivered to your inbox every week. For more coverage of conflict, visit nytimes.com/atwar.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump grounds the Boeing 737 Max 8, Britain’s Parliament rejects a “no-deal” Brexit, and a criminal investigation proceeds into Facebook’s data-sharing. Here’s the latest: The U.S. and Canada, two of the last major holdouts, joined other countries in grounding all Boeing 737 Max 8 jets in the wake of a plane crash in Ethiopia. Their decisions came after new satellite-tracking data suggested similarities between the crash and another involving a Boeing 737 Max 8 in Indonesia in October.Despite a personal appeal from the chief executive of Boeing, President Trump reversed an earlier decision by U.S. aviation regulators to keep the planes in service. Here’s a guide to all the developments in the aftermath of the crash on Sunday of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, which killed more than 150 people.What went wrong: Though no cause has been determined yet, one of the Ethiopian Airlines pilots reported “flight-control problems” to air traffic controllers, requesting permission to turn back minutes before the crash.Fallout: Boeing, an aerospace giant with roughly $100 billion in annual revenue, faces runaway reputational risk. Members of Congress vowed to look into the company’s relationship with regulators and how the Max 8 was approved for flight. After soundly rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan twice, British lawmakers voted against leaving the E.U. without a deal, undercutting Mrs. May’s dwindling authority and negotiating leverage. What next? Parliament will reconvene today to vote on whether to postpone the country’s withdrawal, a measure that has popular support, but then the question becomes for how long and to what purpose.If Parliament votes for an extension, Mrs. May will have to seek permission to delay Brexit from E.U. leaders next week.Some lawmakers want to hold nonbinding votes on alternatives to Mrs. May’s plan. There is talk of a second referendum to confirm public support for Brexit and speculation about a general election to shake up a logjammed Parliament. Britain’s once-reliable “Westminster model” of a strong executive presiding over a unitary state is out the window, replaced by American-style wrangling and gridlock.  U.S. prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation into data deals Facebook struck with some of the world’s largest technology companies that allowed wide access to the personal information of hundreds of millions of its users.A grand jury in New York has subpoenaed records from at least two prominent makers of smartphones and other devices, according to two people who were familiar with the requests. Background: The two companies were among more than 150 firms, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, that had cut sharing deals with Facebook, the world’s dominant social media platform. The agreements, previously reported in The New York Times, let the companies see users’ friends, contact information and other data, sometimes without consent. Facebook has phased out most of the partnerships over the past two years.Response: A spokesman said Facebook was cooperating with investigators.Related: Facebook and two of the services it owns, WhatsApp and Instagram, all experienced interruptions throughout the day on Wednesday, highlighting the potential risks of a consolidated social media giant.One of the U.N.’s own human rights experts called on it to apologize and offer compensation to about 600 Roma families who were forced to live for years in camps in Kosovo that the U.N. built on land contaminated by a former lead-smelting factory.Toxic waste at the camps caused disability and possibly deaths among families who were forced to live there starting in 1999 because of a war between Serbia and ethnic Albanian separatists seeking an independent Kosovo. The U.N. took action in 2000 to protect its peacekeepers from exposure to lead waste but did not act on behalf of the Roma families until 2006, said the expert, Baskut Tuncak, who monitors cases relating to hazardous substances for the U.N. Response: There was no immediate response from U.N. offices overseeing the issue. Three years ago, a U.N. human rights panel found negligence. António Guterres, the U.N. secretary general, later expressed his “profound regret,” but he offered no compensation. Instead, the U.N. set up a trust fund and called for contributions from donors. There have been no donations, Mr. Tuncak said. Paul Manafort: The prison sentence for President Trump’s former campaign chairman was nearly doubled to seven and a half years after a second federal judge added to the 47 months he received last week for tax and bank fraud. On the same day, Mr. Manafort was charged with mortgage fraud and more than a dozen other New York felonies, an effort to ensure that he will face prison time even if Mr. Trump pardons his federal crimes.Kazakhstan: Serikzhan Bilash, an activist who was instrumental in detailing China’s detention of Muslim minorities, has been placed under house arrest in Kazakhstan, where he is accused of “inciting ethnic hatred,” his lawyer said. The U.S. and other Western governments have stepped up their criticism of the detentions ahead of China’s appearance today before the U.N. Human Rights Council. Nigeria: At least eight people have died after a building with a primary and nursery school collapsed in Lagos. At least 70 people were inside when it fell, and possibly many more, neighbors said, as rescue efforts continued. Some residents blamed government negligence, saying that the school building had been marked for demolition with a large “X,” but that instead it was recently refurbished.Iran: Nasrin Sotoudeh, a prominent Iranian human rights lawyer who was detained for eight months without explanation, has been sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 lashes, her husband said. Ms. Sotoudeh was known for defending women who had been arrested for removing their head scarves in public protests.College admissions scandal: Among the 50 people caught up in a U.S. government investigation into college admissions fraud are giants of finance and law whose careers are now at risk. Meanwhile, two colleges whose coaches were accused of taking bribes said they were considering disciplining students connected to the scheme. Here’s the full list of the accused. Spotify: The music streaming platform filed a complaint with European regulators saying that Apple was using its App Store to undercut companies that compete with its own services, like Apple Music.Amy Schumer: The comic, who is pregnant and has faced an onslaught of criticism recently, claims she is still indifferent to what people think of her. “Being cool is powerful in this industry,” but there’s nothing more powerful than not caring, she told The Times ahead of the release of her new Netflix special, “Growing.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: This lemon snacking cake with a coconut glaze is perfect as an afternoon pick-me-up.Refrigerators are filled with clues about a person. And one company is trying to turn that idea into a dating app.Wedding planning can be physically and mentally exhausting. But it doesn’t have to be.The Times recently published a story about a Central Park detective who is retiring, along with his horse, from the New York Police Department. Which got us wondering about how mounted units have managed to endure. One of the first on record is the London Bow Street Horse Patrol, established in the mid-18th century to patrol country roads to ward off petty crime. The idea soon spread to cities across Britain and around the world.These days, mounted officers are usually used for crowd control and easy navigation through traffic (mobility and sightlines from horseback are better than on foot or in a car). And, according to a study in 2015, the benefits go beyond that, to building public trust.In comparison to foot patrols, the report said, “Mounted police were observed to generate over six times as many instances of casual public engagements — such as greetings and brief exchanges — over equivalent time periods in neighborhood patrols.”Remy Tumin, on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA lot of start-ups have promising ideas, but the fundamental problem of affordability seems beyond their reach. By Emily BadgerBillions have been flowing into a corner of the tech industry focused on the housing market. And now there are start-ups to help landlords manage properties, or homeowners manage sales, or tenants manage their packages.But hardly any of it touches the central problem of housing: For many people, it costs too much.“None of that investment, nor the solutions that those companies are offering, will fundamentally change the dynamic of the housing market in a way that increases housing affordability,” said Matt Hoffman, the vice president for innovation at the national housing nonprofit Enterprise Community Partners, surveying what venture capitalists have come to call “proptech.”Policymakers warn that the housing crisis isn’t a problem technology can solve. Yet it’s intriguing to think what might happen if investors threw money more directly at this goal.Mr. Hoffman believes that the right ideas could help change the market. And so Enterprise recently began to invest in early-stage tech start-ups itself.Clara Brenner, a managing partner at a venture capital firm, the Urban Innovation Fund, hears weekly from people hoping she will do the same: When are you going to invest in a company, they ask her, that will solve the housing crisis or the homeless problem?“This looking for a tech solution — I understand why people want it,” Ms. Brenner said. But she doesn’t believe it exists. The housing crisis is a policy problem, she says, one that Nimbyism, zoning laws, land use restrictions and tax policies have made worse. She fears that the dream of a tech fix will distract voters and politicians from those culprits.“They’re waiting for some tech company to come in and sweep up this mess,” she said, “when in fact this is all of our messes, and we’re going to have to deal with it.”The existing start-ups that have attracted the most attention for their potential to improve affordability are the ones trying to revive the decades-old dream of prefab construction. The California company Katerra has been valued at more than $4 billion by investors, who see potential in wringing efficiencies from a construction industry that has had few productivity gains in decades.The Seattle-based Blokable began delivering its first stackable units last year. And Factory OS, founded by a developer of affordable housing, is now producing housing in a factory in Vallejo, Calif.“I definitely think innovation in how we build has a significant role to getting to affordability,” said Carol Galante, the faculty director of the Terner Center for Housing Innovation at the University of California, Berkeley. “I can see it coming. I see it happening.”It now costs as much as $500,000 per unit to build low-income housing in the most expensive markets. Savings in the cost of construction could help developers of such housing stretch subsidies further. Cheaper construction could also change the math in markets where developers say it’s also not profitable to build middle-class housing.But Mr. Hoffman is skeptical that construction tech can fundamentally change affordability; market-rate developers have no incentive to pass those savings on to renters or home buyers, he said. And he shrugs at 3D-printed houses. “Where am I going to put those houses?” he said, nodding to the policy problems. “How long is it going to take me to find the land, get through the local zoning, the neighborhood planning process?”Enterprise is looking instead for companies that could affect how we consume, finance and regulate housing. Perhaps they could enable models between renting and ownership, or squeeze new supply out of the housing that already exists. This month, Enterprise teamed up with a New York-based venture capital firm, MetaProp, to pick and co-invest in companies (MetaProp’s tagline: Location. Location. Innovation.).Together they’re looking not for feel-good stories, but for viable businesses that could grow at Silicon Valley speed. Those companies may not even have creating affordability as their goal. But if that winds up being a result, Enterprise will be content.“We believe that for-profit, fast-growing businesses — and we could be wrong about this — are going to have the biggest impact on this huge problem the fastest,” said Leila Collins, a senior associate at MetaProp. “I don’t have a lot of faith that there will be some huge policy change in the next three years that will make housing affordable in cities.”Point Digital Finance, one company Enterprise has already invested in, helps homeowners tap the equity in their homes in exchange for a share of the property’s future appreciation. That service could help homeowners pay for constructing an accessory dwelling unit, like a backyard in-law cottage. Housing experts say such small-scale units could add to the lower-cost rental stock, but traditional lenders often won’t finance them.Housing is an exceptionally knotty problem, even if any one strand of it — making construction more efficient, or equity more accessible, or markets more transparent — sounds straightforward.That has become clear with a Portland start-up originally called NoAppFee. Tyrone Poole started the company after his own eviction and stint of homelessness, caused by medical debt. Though an aid group gave him a year’s worth of rental assistance, his eviction record meant he had trouble finding a landlord to accept it. And he kept spending money on application fees each time a landlord rejected him.Mr. Poole’s first idea was to conduct background checks for renters, and filter results to show them only the units that would accept them in view of credit, income, eviction or criminal histories. He hoped this would help reduce homelessness, and built the tool into a for-profit business providing the same service to wealthier tenants and more upscale landlords.But he discovered that people kept applying for units they weren’t qualified for anyway. The right matches on the platform were in the wrong neighborhood, or the wrong size. Most often, people kept applying to homes where their incomes were too low to qualify.Now the company, renamed OneApp Oregon, is preparing more ambitious tools aimed at a different problem: Incomes are too low. Soon it will offer a co-signing service for tenants whose incomes don’t qualify, and a service matching tenants so that together their incomes would be enough.“We’re using software instead of development to create housing,” Mr. Poole said. Not actual new housing, but housing that’s newly accessible to people.Even in that, software can’t solve the fundamental problem created in the gap between stagnating incomes and rising housing costs. Mr. Poole will be able to help a renter spending half his income on housing secure that housing. But he can’t change the reality that housing costs that much.These larger forces shaping the market are beyond even what a $4 billion construction start-up can disrupt, or what a national nonprofit like Enterprise can bend. Pull a thread in the housing market, and it leads to the decline of good working-class jobs, or the federal government’s long-term retreat from housing, or the fundamental tension that Americans want housing to be both affordable and a good investment. It’s notable this month that as both Microsoft and the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative pledged major new housing investments, neither proposed spending its money on tech fixes. Both announced investment funds to help affordable housing developers. And both plan to push for local policies that would make it easier to expand housing.That may be the most realistic route for tech start-ups to reshape the market.“I don’t blame them for not being able to solve the root cause,” said Molly Turner, who lectures on urban innovation at Berkeley’s Haas School of Business. “If anything, I hope they make a ton of money and get a lot of clout, and then help advocate for the policy changes that we need.”Emily Badger writes about cities and urban policy for The Upshot from the Washington bureau. She's particularly interested in housing, transportation and inequality — and how they're all connected. She joined The Times in 2016 from The Washington Post.  @emilymbadger AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Britain asks Europe for more time, China’s slowing economy reaches new industries and Japan’s so-called snow monsters feel the effects of climate change. Here’s the latest: After two long years of negotiations, lawmakers voted to delay the country’s departure from the E.U. beyond the original March 29 deadline. In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit, effectively bringing the country back to square one, and turned down an attempt to seize control of the process from Prime Minister Theresa May.What next? Mrs. May must get permission to postpone Brexit from European Union officials next week but that might only create new problems.Without an approved deal, it’s unclear how long the extension should be and what can be achieved in the extra time. Too short, and it’d be impractical. Too long, and Britain would have to take part in European Parliament elections in May, which neither of the main political parties want.Another angle: The slow-moving, painstaking Brexit process has diminished the executive authority that has historically been the linchpin of a streamlined, predictable “Westminster model,” writes our London-based correspondent Ellen Barry. Follow her on Twitter for all of Brexit’s twists and turns. With all of its 737 Max 8 planes now grounded around the world, the aircraft manufacturer has a difficult task ahead: navigating the unknown costs of damage to its reputation.The short-term costs of a software fix for the jet will probably be manageable. The bigger concern is whether Boeing can salvage confidence in the Max 8 model, the company’s best-selling jet that accounts for around $550 billion in future revenue.Details: Since the second crash of a Max 8 plane, in Ethiopia on Sunday, shares of Boeing have dropped nearly 11 percent.Airlines that were using the planes have started demanding compensation for losses while the jets are out of service. It costs an estimated $1 million to lease a replacement jet for three months.Passenger backlash might also force some airlines to turn to Boeing’s main rival, Airbus.The latest: The so-called black box from the flight that crashed was sent to France for analysis.Explainer: Here’s a visual guide to why regulators are concerned about the Max 8 plane. The country’s slowing economic growth, which has already rippled through factory floors and construction sites, is expanding into other once-thriving sectors, such as the tech industry.Educated, middle-class workers are now faced with job cuts and shrinking paychecks, indicating that the slump is broader than official numbers suggest and might be harder for the government to reverse.Impact: As white-collar workers start to feel the pinch, they’re tightening their belts and spending less money, which will have a trickle-down effect across other parts of the economy.The government’s usual tactics to resuscitate growth — unleashing a wave of loans or spending on infrastructure — won’t be much help for the service, financial and tech industries. Experts say the government will need to think of long-term policy reforms to get over this bump.Related: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, as one of the lead negotiators in U.S. trade talks with Beijing, has been pushing China to open up its film industry to give Hollywood greater access to the local market. But ethics officials are raising questions about conflicts of interest given Mr. Mnuchin’s stakes in a film-production company. Federal prosecutors are looking into the social media company’s data-sharing deals with some of the world’s largest technology companies, which gave them access to the personal information of hundreds of millions of its users, sometimes without their consent.According to two people familiar with the matter, a grand jury subpoenaed records from at least two of more than 150 companies, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, that had deals with Facebook.Reminder: Facebook has spent the last year under scrutiny, with investigations by the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Justice Department, which is specifically looking into reports that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica used the platform to help President Trump’s election campaign.One sticking point: The data-sharing partnerships could be a violation of a 2011 consent agreement between Facebook and the F.T.C. to protect user privacy. The F.T.C. is currently weighing a possible multibillion-dollar fine against Facebook, which would be the largest such penalty by a trade regulator. Border Wall: The U.S. Senate, in a bipartisan rebuke, voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the border to fund his wall. The Senate vote was the first time Congress has blocked a presidential emergency declaration and almost certainly sets up Mr. Trump’s first veto.Malaysia: Prosecutors refused to dismiss the case of a Vietnamese woman accused of assassinating Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in Kuala Lumpur in 2017 by smearing him with a nerve agent. Her co-defendant was released days ago without any charges or any explanation.Pakistan: China, which has close military and economic ties with Pakistan, blocked a U.N. Security Council vote that would have blacklisted the founder of Jaish-e-Mohammed, Masood Azhar, derailing a yearslong effort by India to designate the group as a terrorist organization. The group recently claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on Indian soldiers in Kashmir that dragged India and Pakistan to the brink of war.New Zealand: An attack on a government minister on Thursday rattled the country, where politicians are often seen in public unencumbered by security guards, leading Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to warn people not to take a high level of access to lawmakers for granted.Snow monsters: Every year, in a village in the Yamagata Prefecture, snow and ice draped over conifer trees create sculptural Godzilla-like figures, known as “juhyo,” that draw tourists from across the world. But climate change is beginning to diminish the phenomenon.Climate change: Students in more than 100 countries will be protesting climate change today in what could be one of the largest challenges yet against global environmental policies. And it all started with a shy 16-year-old in Sweden.U.S.: Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman and Democrat who came close to unseating Senator Ted Cruz in the midterm elections last year, announced he was jumping into the 2020 presidential race, entering an already-crowded field of diverse candidates and big-ticket proposals.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: This Guinness pie recipe is worthy of a celebration. (You may want a walk after, or a nap.)Cutting out plastic when you’re grocery shopping is almost impossible. Writing a list and using a bit of imagination might help.Playing an instrument can be a rewarding hobby, and many apps can help get you started.A reader this week asked to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described in Wednesday’s Back Story, where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced.The Virginia-born Elijah Barrett Prettyman was a lawyer, professor and journalist before President Harry Truman nominated him to the prestigious U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He served from 1945 to 1962. From 1958 to 1960, he was chief judge.He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was named for him in 1997, 16 years after his death.P.S. His son, E. Barrett Prettyman Jr., also had an illustrious legal career, including playing a crucial backstage role in the Supreme Court’s unanimous school-desegregation decision.Andrea Kannapell, Briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. A battalion provides a prototype for a European army, nuclear saber-rattling from Russia, and an actor accused of staging an assault on himself. Here’s the latest: On a base in Lohheide, Germany, German and Dutch soldiers serve together in a tank battalion. It’s a prototype for a European army that remains a distant vision of proponents like Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Emmanuel Macron of France. There are many obstacles to such an army — language barriers, for starters. Germany’s military is also badly outmoded and short of even thermal underwear, and militarization remains a touchy subject. The Dutch have joined forces with Germany because the Netherlands has no tank program. Populist forces are rising across Europe, emphasizing nationalism over supranational loyalties, even as a European army feels to some more urgent than ever, with America pressuring allies to increase military spending and the U.S. security umbrella increasingly in doubt. A possible future: Efforts like this unit, Battalion 414, are “islands” that need to proliferate and then coalesce into a continental defense structure, said Hans-Peter Bartels, Germany’s parliamentary commissioner for the armed forces.Three lawmakers abandoned Prime Minister Theresa May’s Conservative Party, condemning the government’s handling of Brexit as “disastrous,” and labeling pro-Brexit hard-liners as “a party within a party.” They joined eight rebels from the opposition Labour Party in an attempt to upend Britain’s entrenched two-party system for the first time in a generation.Brexit has become a defining issue for party loyalty. And as the Labour Party moves further to the left and the Conservatives rightward, centrists find themselves adrift.Looking ahead: The 11 newly independent lawmakers number the same as the centrist Liberal Democrats, but as yet have no policy platform, political organization or leader. And the country’s electoral system makes it exceptionally difficult for new parties to break through. Still, an expert told us that British politics might be at its most fluid since the 1920s. President Vladimir Putin used his state-of-the-nation address to make some of his most explicit threats yet to start a nuclear arms race with the U.S. after the Trump administration said this month that America was withdrawing from a landmark arms control treaty. Mr. Putin, whose popularity has fallen sharply in the past year, also promised increased social spending. He did not criticize President Trump, instead suggesting, as he has in the past, that a secretive “deep state” was hobbling the American president. Analysis: Any arms race would be costly, and the Russian leader’s aggressive tone appeared to be intended, in part, to persuade Washington not to abandon the treaty. His promises of increased social spending came without an explanation of how a troubled Russian economy would pay for it all. Other Russia news: Microsoft said that a group of hackers associated with Russian intelligence had targeted civil society groups across Europe.Britain, it seems, isn’t overly worried about using technology from the Chinese giant, despite warnings from the U.S. that Huawei is beholden to Beijing and is a proxy for espionage.The head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said at a conference in Brussels that any risks posed by using Huawei’s technology could be mitigated, citing the strict British security reviews the company has been subjected to for more than 15 years.Why it matters: By the end of the year, Britain will decide whether to use Huawei’s technology in building out its 5G network. Other European countries that are considering Huawei for their 5G networks are watching closely for clues to whether the White House’s claims have been exaggerated.The U.S. position: American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.The White House, while pressuring allies to block Huawei, hasn’t provided evidence to back up its accusations of espionage, and the company has consistently denied the claims.Climate change: A panel that the White House is preparing to establish, to examine whether climate change affects national security, is set to include a climate change denier who argues that carbon emissions are beneficial to humanity. UBS: French judges ordered the Swiss financial giant to pay a fine of 3.7 billion euros, about $4.2 billion, for orchestrating what prosecutors said was a long-running scheme to help French clients hide huge sums of money from the authorities. U.S. domestic terrorism: A Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist who was arrested in Maryland last week was plotting to kill prominent journalists and Democratic politicians as well as “leftists in general,” federal prosecutors said in a court filing. He is said to have amassed a huge arms cache and studied the manifesto of Anders Behring Breivik, the far-right Norwegian who killed 77 people in 2011.Venezuela: Ahead of a Saturday deadline set by the U.S. and the Venezuelan opposition for allowing in aid shipments, the government of President Nicolás Maduro announced that it was closing its border to air and sea traffic from three Caribbean islands. About three million Venezuelans have fled their collapsing country in recent years, most of them on a 125-mile trek over a 12,000-foot mountain pass.Jussie Smollett: The actor from the hit show “Empire” reported to the Chicago police in January that he had been attacked by masked men hurling homophobic and racial slurs. On Wednesday night, he was charged with staging the assault. The Vatican: Pope Francis and other leaders of the Roman Catholic Church convene today for a conference on clerical sexual abuse. Victims’ advocates are demanding urgent and uniform church laws to impose zero tolerance, but Vatican officials say one world standard is virtually impossible. In interviews, some church leaders even played down the problem of church sexual abuse.Michael Cohen: President Trump’s personal lawyer and longtime fixer, who faces prison time, has agreed to testify in public before Congress next Wednesday, setting up a political fireworks show. Zebra science: Researchers dressed horses in patterned “coats” — and now think they understand why zebra stripes protect against flies.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Feed the family in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.Drowning in plastic? Here are nine steps to help cut your use of single-use plastics.If you have a chronic illness, researching it can help you take some control of situation, and allow your friends and relatives to get a better understanding of what you’re going through.In fortune, children, friends, or wife,Owe all their zest to thee.Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.Mahomed, who died on or around this day in 1851, had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”He claimed that the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing: Or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.Alisha Haridasani Gupta wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. President Trump considers side-stepping Congress, India proposes new censorship measures and China brings digital propaganda to the people. Here’s the latest: Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said that the president planned to make the declaration, allowing him to bypass Congress to get funds for his promised wall at the southern border.That would set up a constitutional clash with lawmakers over who controls the federal purse. Here’s how a national emergency declaration would work.Mr. McConnell said Mr. Trump would act after signing off on a border security deal that Congress is about to approve to avert another government shutdown. The deal provides just a fraction of the wall funding Mr. Trump had demanded.Other news from Washington: Andrew McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, said that the agency was so alarmed by President Trump’s decision to fire the bureau’s director, James Comey, in 2017 that Justice Department officials considered encouraging cabinet members to invoke a constitutional amendment to remove him from office.Meanwhile, the Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general, despite concerns from Democrats that he might not make public the findings of his department’s ongoing Russia investigation. The technology giant announced it wasn’t going to “move forward” with plans to build a sprawling corporate campus in Long Island City, Queens, after stiff opposition from some local lawmakers and unions empowered by the rise of Democratic political strength.Amazon had forecast that the campus would have created more than 25,000 jobs.The opposition: A point of contention was the $3 billion package of incentives and subsidies the city and state agreed to — their largest ever, dedicated to one of the world’s richest companies. City officials had also agreed to remake plans for the Queens waterfront and give the company’s chief, Jeff Bezos, access to a helicopter pad.There was also concern over the company’s anti-union practices and the changes its huge presence would bring to Queens. Before Amazon’s announcement, we looked at the resistance.The government has proposed new measures that would give it more power to monitor and suppress information on the internet, drawing comparisons with China’s muscular censorship.“The proposed changes have an authoritarian bent,” said one activist.Details: The new rules would allow Indian officials to demand the removal of posts or videos from Facebook, Twitter, Google, TikTok and other platforms that they deem libelous, hateful, deceptive or invasive of privacy.Internet companies would also have to build new tools that would enable blockling “unlawful information or content,” and would need to weaken privacy protections of messaging services, like WhatsApp, so that authorities can trace messages back to their original senders.What’s next? Public comment on the proposal has ended so Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government could implement the measures at any time. The administration has been eager to push this through before national election dates are announced, which would trigger special pre-election measures that limit new policies.Working independently as well as through trade groups, Microsoft, Facebook and dozens of other tech companies are fighting back against the proposals.As the U.S. works with the Taliban on a peace deal to end nearly two decades of war, many young Afghans are worried that the basic liberties they have become used to under a civilian government could be at risk.This year, Valentine’s Day turned into a day of protest, with poetry expressing not love but fear.One verse in particular — “I kiss you amid the Taliban” — has turned into a rallying cry for young artists and activists.Background: Last month, the Taliban and U.S. negotiators agreed in principle to a framework for the phased withdrawal of American troops, but the Afghan government has been left out of the process. And women, in particular, have voiced concerns about their rights in the future.Kashmir: A vehicle filled with explosives ran into a convoy of paramilitary forces in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir, killing at least 40 soldiers — perhaps the deadliest attack there in 20 years. The Jaish-e-Muhammed, which the U.S. considers a terrorist organization, quickly claimed responsibility.Saudi Arabia: Apple and Google are being pressured to remove an app that lets male “guardians” track and restrict the movement of women in the kingdom, accusing the tech companies of enabling gender discrimination.Philippines: Maria Ressa, the co-founder of Rappler, a news start-up that has been critical of President Rodrigo Duterte, was released on bail a day after she was arrested in a digital libel case.Brazil: After a mining dam collapsed last month, burying more than a 150 people under mud, our team used geospatial analysis to map out other high risk areas.Switzerland: A warmer climate is rapidly melting away most of the glaciers in the Alps, and engineers are working on how to adjust their approach to the country’s biggest energy source — water.Ryan Adams: Seven women and over a dozen associates came forward with accounts of how the prolific singer-songwriter and ex-husband of Mandy Moore dangled career opportunities while pursuing female artists for sex. He has denied the accusations.Egypt: The country’s Parliament approved a sweeping measure that clears the way for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to stay in power until 2034, further entrenching his authoritarian rule and the military’s dominance.Airbus: The aircraft maker said it would cease production of the mammoth double-decker A380. Orders for the plane dwindled as air travel shifted focus to smaller jets and regional airports.JPMorgan Chase: The financial giant became the first major U.S. bank to issue its own cryptocurrency. The JPM Coin, representing a single U.S. dollar, will enter testing in a few months.China: A new app designed by the government allows users to catch up on the latest state media reports, view a quote of the day from President Xi Jinping and quiz themselves on his policies. It’s Beijing’s latest effort to bring Communist Party propaganda initiatives into the digital age.Brexit: The increasingly messy divorce between Britain and the E.U. bloc is, according to the Dutch, akin to a furry blue monster.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Wait, you don’t need a recipe. Sam Sifton gives you 38 ways to get dinner on the table without one.The environmental impact of growing flowers commercially is higher than you might think. Here’s how a romantic can stay green.Considering a trip to one of our “52 Places to Go in 2019”? We’ve collected 52 books to help you explore each spot. Our Back Story on Wednesday on the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales included a fact surprising to us: The temperature scale devised by Anders Celsius in the early 18th century set the boiling point at zero degrees and the freezing point at 100, the opposite of current use.It was a surprise to some readers as well, who wrote in to ask if we had our facts straight.Fortunately, we did. Celsius was from Sweden, and wanted to be able to measure frigid temperatures without using negative numbers. That’s because the minus sign could be missed, resulting in errors.Many attribute the reversal to Carl Linnaeus, known as the father of taxonomy. Also a Swede, in the 1740s, he ordered a thermometer using Celsius’ gradations, but with calibration shifted to move in the same direction as Fahrenheit’s.Know of any other facts that are so counter to conventional wisdom or understanding that they sound wrong? Email us, with “Odd fact” in the subject line.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Jacob SilvermanTHE AGE OF SURVEILLANCE CAPITALISM The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of Power By Shoshana Zuboff 691 pp. PublicAffairs. $38Canadian politicians don’t attract much notice this side of the border, but recently I’ve been heeding the words of Charlie Angus. A member of Canada’s Parliament for the New Democratic Party, Angus is a longtime punk rocker and activist with ties to the Catholic Worker movement; he’s also a sharp critic of the growing power of Big Tech. In late November, Angus attended a hearing in British Parliament in which representatives from nine countries took turns interrogating a Facebook vice president about the company’s proliferating scandals (an empty chair sat before a Mark Zuckerberg nameplate, marking the chief executive’s absence).For Angus, fake news and data-based manipulation — exemplified by the shadowy work of Cambridge Analytica, whose voter-profiling scheme is often cited as an important factor in Donald Trump’s 2016 victory — were mere symptoms of a larger malady. “The problem is Facebook,” he declared. “The problem is the unprecedented economic control of every form of social discourse and communication.” It was one of Angus’s colleagues, the Canadian member of Parliament Bob Zimmer, who may be the one who gave the problem a name: “Surveillance capitalism,” he said, with its vast concentrations of data and influence over human life, required new laws and new forms of regulation.Both Angus and Zimmer were right, but before we can establish a firm legislative or regulatory agenda, we have to learn what surveillance capitalism is, as we come to terms with the novel form of economic and social power represented by Facebook, Google and a handful of other tech behemoths privy to our every click and utterance. Enter, as a critical guide, Shoshana Zuboff, who has emerged as the leading explicator of surveillance capitalism. A Harvard Business School professor emerita with decades of experience studying issues of labor and power in the digital economy, Zuboff in 2015 published a paper, “Big Other: Surveillance Capitalism and the Prospects of an Information Civilization,” which has since become an essential source for anyone looking to reckon seriously with what she described as a distinct, emerging economic logic. Now she has followed up that paper with a doorstop of a book, an intensively researched, engagingly written chronicle of surveillance capitalism’s origins and its deleterious prospects for our society.According to Zuboff, surveillance capitalism distinguishes itself from its industrial forebear as “a new economic order that claims human experience as a free source of raw material.” We are the resource to be mined; the billion-dollar profits of Facebook and Google are built on a general accounting of our lives and everyday behavior. But surveillance capitalism is also many other things: “a parasitic economic logic … a rogue mutation of capitalism … a new collective order based on total certainty” and “an overthrow of the people’s sovereignty.” All this may sound a little heady, like perhaps an overseasoned stew of po-mo economic jargon, but Zuboff will have you asking for another helping long before the book’s end.Surveillance capitalism depends on the constant gathering of “behavioral surplus,” or the data exhaust that we produce as part of the normal course of web browsing, app use and digital consumption. All of it is potentially revealing, allowing companies to make sophisticated inferences about who we are, what we want and what we’re likely to do. As the economist Hal Varian noted in 2002, “Every action a user performs is considered a signal to be analyzed and fed back into the system.” That means that there is potentially no end to a surveillance capitalist’s extractive appetite, which is why — in the name of more efficient services and relevant ads — companies are constantly pursuing new, more granular data streams in our homes, workplaces and bodies. Unlike oil, to which it’s often compared, personal data is potentially limitless, but its extraction and consumption may be just as toxic, as we’re only beginning to understand.Under the regime of surveillance capitalism, it is not enough simply to gather information about what people do. Eventually, you have to influence behavior, beyond the simple suasion practiced by targeted ads. It’s not about showing someone the right ad; you have to show it at the right place and time, with the language and imagery calibrated for precise effect. You have to lead people through the physical world, making them show up at the sponsored pop-up store or vote for the preferred candidate. Armed with a veritable real-time feed of a user’s thoughts and feelings, companies are beginning to practice just this kind of coercion, which is why you might see makeup ads before a Friday evening out or why inducements from a personal injury lawyer might pop up on your phone as you sit in a hospital waiting room. When we want things — health information, travel schedules, a date — is also when we are most vulnerable, when intimate data yield themselves for corporate capture. “The result,” as Zuboff notes, “is a perverse amalgam of empowerment inextricably layered with diminishment.” We seem ever more exposed to and dependent on surveillance capitalists, our benevolent info-lords, but their operations are defined by opacity, corporate secrecy and the scrim of technological authority.In the face of all this, Zuboff sees a disastrous overturning of the traditional capitalist order. We are being pushed “toward a society in which capitalism does not function as a means to inclusive economic or political institutions.” With statements like these, Zuboff threatens to lose those readers who don’t share her regard for a bygone halcyon era of industrial capitalism that produced what she calls “traditional reciprocities,” defined by straightforward exchanges of money for goods and services, which in turn bound people together in ostensibly healthy social, economic and political arrangements. Zuboff’s analysis would benefit from more emphasis on the role of deregulation, the declining power of organized labor and the gradual financialization of the economy. With its ability to create boutique investment products that are several degrees removed from any tangible asset, it’s finance that seems like the most obvious ideological forebear of surveillance capitalism, which uses digitalization to render more of life as tradable commodities.But Zuboff’s capacious book has room for minority opinions and other forms of dissent. “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism” may lack a straightforward political program — Zuboff comes across as a liberal, albeit not one who slots neatly on the left-right axis — but it is loaded with useful economic, technological and anthropological analysis. (In this political vacuum, I’d recommend the work of Trebor Scholz, a New School professor who has made a winning case for what he calls platform co-ops — nonprofit, worker-owned tech platforms that would lack the perverse incentives of surveillance capitalism.)We should, after all, avoid a belief in tidy solutions. Works of technology criticism are often expected to provide a few hundred pages of doomsaying before providing a concise final chapter in which the Gordian knot of our problems is neatly and improbably cut. “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism,” with its near-700-page footprint, is thankfully not that kind of book. Light on prescriptivist notions, Zuboff does propose a “right to sanctuary,” based on universalist, if ever more threatened, humanitarian principles, like the right to asylum. But she’s after something bigger, providing a scaffolding of critical thinking from which to examine the great crises of the digital age. Through her we learn that our friends to the north were indeed correct: Facebook is the problem (along with Google, Microsoft, Amazon, et al.). This is the rare book that we should trust to lead us down the long hard road of understanding.Jacob Silverman is the author of “Terms of Service: Social Media and the Price of Constant Connection.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported bySquare FeetBy Jane MargoliesFor years, office architects and designers have been bringing nature into the workplace, incorporating materials like wood and stone and strategically deploying plants and botanical artwork.Now, companies are inviting employees to step outside for a taste of the real thing.Employers with suburban campuses have long turned swaths of blank lawn into furnished outdoor areas where workers can meet with colleagues, work alone or simply take a break from their computer screens.Now, developers and owners of urban office buildings are adding terraces and transforming once-barren rooftops into parklike settings, where workers can plant vegetables, unfurl yoga mats or swing in a hammock.“There’s not a developer or forward-thinking building owner today that doesn’t have this top of mind,” said Paul J. Amrich, a vice chairman for the New York area at CBRE, a real estate services company.Fueling this trend is growing awareness of the health and wellness benefits from contact with nature, a concept known as biophilia. Exposure to nature has been shown to lower levels of cortisol, the human stress hormone, as well as stimulate creativity. Employers competing for the best workers are using outdoor amenities to show they care about their staff’s well-being.CookFox Architects, a firm in Manhattan that focuses on sustainability, makes green outdoor space a prerequisite when agreeing to design a building. The firm, which grows kale and tends an apiary on the terraces of its own office, recently completed 512W22, an office building in Chelsea, for Vornado Realty Trust and the Albanese Organization. The 172,700-square-foot building has an additional 16,920 square feet of terraces and a common roof, all planted with native grasses and trees selected by MKM Landscape Architecture.“Every floor in the building has an outdoor space attached to it,” said David R. Greenbaum, president of Vornado’s New York division.Nature aside, outdoor work areas are a logical next step in the evolution of flexible offices. Many companies already offer lounge areas and communal tables for employees to work without feeling chained to their desks. A terrace or rooftop, equipped with Wi-Fi and electrical outlets, can be another option.“Employees respond to additional places to touch down,” said John Mooz, a senior managing director for the developer Hines who oversees projects in Houston and Austin, Tex.Hines’s 609 Main, a 48-story office tower in downtown Houston, has landscaped outdoor space off the 12th floor, atop a podium that rises from the base of the tower. The podium houses stores and indoor parking, but instead of putting an outdoor parking lot on the roof, as is common in this business district, the developer hired OJB Landscape Architecture to add trees, trellises and pergolas.The space has become a desirable asset for a lower-floor office that might otherwise have been a hard sell because it did not offer superior views, Mr. Mooz said.United Airlines leased the 12th floor and the seven floors above it, and Gensler, which outfitted United’s offices, furnished the terrace, too.It’s “a great social gathering place,” said Gavin Molloy, United’s vice president for corporate real estate, adding that employees use it daily for relaxing, eating lunch and meeting with co-workers.Like many interior office innovations, the trend in outdoor spaces has roots in the workplaces of technology giants.Facebook has a nine-acre park, with meandering paths for walking meetings, atop its flagship building in Menlo Park, Calif. Microsoft built tree houses in Redmond, Wash.At Samsung’s new North American headquarters, in San Jose, Calif., designed by the architecture firm NBBJ, every third floor of the 10-story building offers outdoor space. Some terraces are devoted to quiet contemplation and yoga, while others have active features such as a putting green where employees can practice their golf swing. On the ground level, the landscape architecture firm SWA laid out a series of spaces as varied as tennis courts and a “reflection garden.”Companies that hire SWA want to know what the competition is doing, in part because they are all angling for the same work force, said Gerdo P. Aquino, the firm’s chief executive.“Every time I start a program, they say, ‘Check out what Apple did, what Facebook did, what Google did,’” he said.Companies are also asking workers what they want in outdoor spaces.A survey commissioned by L. L. Bean found that 86 percent of indoor workers would like to spend more time outdoors during the workday. The retailer, based in Freeport, Me., teamed up with the co-working firm Industrious to create a pop-up outdoor office with individual and group work areas — and then took the show on the road. Started in New York’s Madison Square Park last summer, the “Be an Outsider at Work” demonstration project also traveled to Boston, Philadelphia and Madison, Wis.LinkedIn has a workplace design lab at the main campus of its headquarters in Sunnyvale, Calif., for tinkering with ideas for outfitting its 32 offices around the globe. Shade is essential for outdoor work spaces, the lab has found, in part to prevent glare on phone and laptop screens. The lab created a mobile meeting room that can be rolled out onto a terrace and is designing an in-place roofed space with desks and indoor-outdoor computer monitors, according to Brett Hautop, LinkedIn’s senior director for global design and build.Of course, it’s one thing to introduce an outdoor work space at a sprawling, low-rise campus; it’s another to squeeze it into a project in a built-up urban environment where every square foot, if not square inch, matters. And some parts of the country have to contend with inclement weather.In New York, developers are incorporating outdoor spaces in new projects.When Tavros Holdings, Charney Construction & Development and 1 Oak Contracting began a mixed-use complex centered on the historic Dime Savings Bank building in the Williamsburg neighborhood in Brooklyn, outdoor space was “a must,” said Nicholas Silvers, a founding partner of Tavros Holdings.Their architect, Fogarty Finger in New York, added terraces to a five-story structure for retailing and offices; office tenants will furnish the terraces as they see fit. Grain Collective will landscape the roof, which tenants will share with renters in the complex’s residential tower, with flower beds, a boardwalk and a lawn.With existing buildings, the roof is often the only place to create an outdoor amenity. When Fogarty Finger works on conversions of old manufacturing buildings, the project involves adding a roof deck nine times out of 10, according to Chris Fogarty, one of the firm’s founders. Furniture may need to be anchored so that everything stays put when the wind blows, and covered up in the winter.Vornado plans to add a lush landscape atop the 1913 James A. Farley Building in Midtown Manhattan, the columned post office that in its next incarnation will house a train hall as well as retail and office tenants. According to renderings from the Future Green Studio in Brooklyn, the perimeter of the roof will be planted with flowers and grasses interspersed with benches and picnic tables.Such investments add significantly to construction costs, according to developers, architects and landscape architects. Among other things, roofs must be properly sealed and lightweight soils used to minimize added weight loads.But according to Mr. Amrich of CBRE, a landlord can charge 10 to 15 percent more for a Manhattan office space with an outdoor area.Typically, he said, landlords do not charge per square foot for terraces and usable roofs, but they are able to secure a higher overall rent because of such amenities.“In a market with 450 million square feet of office space to choose from,” he added, “it’s a way of creating differentiation.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byApple’s chief executive has enjoyed enormous success over his seven years running the company, but he’s likely to face tougher times ahead.By Jack NicasDo not pity Timothy D. Cook. He has made hundreds of millions of dollars as Apple’s chief executive. He is regarded as one of business’s best bosses, and runs a company with a beloved brand and $130 billion in cash. Even so, he is hitting what could be the toughest time of his tenure in Apple’s corner office, and his legacy as heir to Steve Jobs will be on the line. Here are five reasons:The signature innovation of Apple’s late co-founder, Mr. Jobs, was the iPhone. Mr. Cook’s has been his ability to crack the Chinese market. That strategy delivered hundreds of millions of new customers and helped make Apple the first private company to surpass $1 trillion in market value by August last year.But now it might be backfiring. The Chinese economy is sputtering, and the trade war between the United States and China isn’t getting much better. With most adults — even children — in the developed world now owning one if not two smartphones, Apple has relied on China to keep growing. On Wednesday, Mr. Cook announced a potential drop of 25 percent in sales in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan in the most recent quarter. A sharp falloff like that suggests that Chinese consumers are following a trend in other emerging markets like India and Indonesia, where consumers have long passed over iPhones for cheaper, almost-as-good devices from Apple’s competitors.Apple’s share price dropped nearly 10 percent on Thursday, but bounced back about 4 percent on Friday.People aren’t buying iPhones the way they used to. With smartphones now in nearly every pocket in the developed world, new customers are hard to come by. So Apple has increasingly relied on enticing existing customers to toss their old iPhones for faster, slimmer, pricier successors. The problem is, many people aren’t. Mr. Cook said this week that customers were waiting longer to replace their iPhones, with many instead swapping in new batteries to extend their life. Apple fueled that trend when it cut the price of battery swaps to $29 from $79 in response to revelations that its software slowed down iPhones with old batteries.That presents a dilemma for Mr. Cook. Apple wants iPhones to be durable and long lasting so consumers will see them as worthy investments. (Many now cost more than a refrigerator.) Apple also knows that the longer consumers use their iPhone, the more they pay for apps and Apple services, a rapidly growing and increasingly important part of Apple’s business. But the ugly truth might be: Longer-lasting iPhones are bad for business.Apple’s sophisticated supply chain is among the great wonders of modern business, incorporating hundreds of suppliers in a complex web of factories and shippers to keep up with global demand for one of history’s most popular products. And Mr. Cook, who was Apple’s operations guru before he became chief executive, is largely credited with its creation.But it soon might be in the cross hairs of President Trump. Apple, one of the quintessential American brands, assembles most of its products in China — and Mr. Trump has noticed. He criticized Apple on the campaign trail, saying he’d force it to start making its products closer to home. While president, he has said Apple plans “to build a lot of plants” in the United States — even though it hasn’t announced plans to do so. (Mr. Cook hasn’t publicly corrected him.)While Apple avoided an iPhone tax in the first rounds of tariffs, it might not be so lucky if Mr. Trump is looking for more products to target. If that happens, Apple will be in a pickle. Its supply chain is entrenched in China, and finding another country that can match China’s scale and skill in the labor market will be difficult. The iPhone is also already among the world’s most expensive phones. Increasing the price to pay for tariffs would most likely scare away even more buyers.Cozying up to the president to spare Apple products from tariffs also risks angering Apple’s employees in liberal Silicon Valley — even some of its customers. So far, Mr. Cook has walked a fine line, holding cordial private meetings with Mr. Trump while also publicly criticizing his policies, without drawing the ire of the president or Apple employees.On Friday, speaking to reporters at the White House Rose Garden, Mr. Trump reiterated that he wanted Apple to move manufacturing to the United States.“Don’t forget this: Apple makes their product in China,” he said. “I told Tim Cook, who is a friend of mine and who I like a lot: ‘Make your product in the United States. Build those big, beautiful plants that go on for miles, it seems. Build those plants in the United States.’”He went on to say China, not the United States, gets the biggest benefit from Apple. “They build their product mostly in China.”Two months ago, Mr. Cook slipped a wonky announcement into Apple’s earnings call: The company would no longer disclose how many iPhones, Macs and iPads it sold. “The number of units sold in any 90-day period is not necessarily representative of the underlying strength of our business,” he reasoned.Apple had reported the metric for years, highlighting tremendous growth in iPhone sales. But those sales have leveled off over the last two quarters. In an earnings call at the end of January, Mr. Cook will probably tell investors that the iPhone business is slowing. How much? That will be up to people outside the company to figure out. Investors were displeased — even before the surprise news about sales in China. Apple’s shares have since dropped more than 30 percent, shaving $380 billion off its market value. The most valuable public company in the world not long ago is now worth less than longtime rivals Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet, Google’s parent company.Mr. Jobs presided over a historic run of innovation in his second tour at Apple, from the iMac to the iPod to the iPhone to the iPad. In his seven years as chief executive, Mr. Cook has announced the Apple Watch and AirPods, which have done well but have been far from iPhone-like industry changers.So what’s next? That is Mr. Cook’s biggest challenge.Apple has been working on artificial intelligence and self-driving car technology — but most industry insiders believe it is way behind competitors like Alphabet. Then there is the world of digital health, where Apple would face intense regulations and bureaucracy. Or maybe Apple will try to build glasses that overlay a digital interface on what people see. That technology, called augmented reality, faces enormous technical hurdles — as well as the challenge of getting people to wear a computer on their face. Think of a (hopefully) stylish version of Google’s oft-mocked Google Glass.Whatever he does, Mr. Cook faces enormous expectations. It takes a lot to fuel growth at a company that had $265.6 billion in revenue in its last fiscal year.The Apple Watch dominates the market for wearable technology and would be a smash hit for any other company. For Apple? Watches have been counted in the “other products” category in financial results.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article quoted incorrectly from comments made by President Trump on Friday. He said, “Don’t forget this: Apple makes their product in China," not “in the United States.”Jack Nicas covers technology from San Francisco. Before joining The Times, he spent seven years at The Wall Street Journal covering technology, aviation and national news.  @jacknicas • Facebook AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump agreed to reopen the federal government for three weeks while negotiations continued over border security, backing down after a monthlong standoff with Democrats over funding for his border wall.The decision paved the way for Congress to pass spending bills as soon as Friday. The stopgap measure will restore normal operations at a series of federal agencies until Feb. 15 and begin paying the 800,000 federal workers who have been furloughed or forced to work for free for 35 days.The plan includes no money for the wall and was essentially the same approach Mr. Trump rejected at the end of December. But he cautioned that the cease-fire might be only temporary.“We really have no choice but to build a powerful wall or steel barrier,” Mr. Trump said in the Rose Garden. “If we don’t get a fair deal from Congress, the government will either shut down on Feb. 15, or I will use the powers afforded to me under the laws and Constitution of the United States to address this emergency.”Airport delays this morning added to the urgency of a solution. La Guardia Airport in New York was closed to arriving flights, and a shortage of air traffic controllers triggered significant delays across the Northeast._____2. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, revealed the most direct link yet between the parallel efforts of the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid.In a seven-count indictment against Roger Stone, above, an informal adviser to President Trump, the special counsel disclosed evidence that a top campaign official had instructed Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about thousands of hacked Democratic emails. That effort began well after it was widely reported that Russian intelligence operatives were behind the hack.The indictment makes no mention of whether Mr. Trump played a role, though Mr. Mueller did leave a curious clue about how high in the campaign the effort reached: A senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to contact Mr. Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases that might hurt the Clinton campaign, according to the court document.Who is Roger Stone, anyway? Here’s what we know about him and his colorful career._____3. Venezuela’s opposition leader made his first public appearance since he declared himself president, and told supporters to keep pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”The rally was peaceful and there was no indication Juan Guaidó would be arrested, as many feared.At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro took a more conciliatory approach than before and called for dialogue. The request appeared to signal that the standoff between the government and Mr. Guaidó may be shifting.Opposition talks with the military may be a factor. Venezuela’s top brass swore allegiance to Mr. Maduro, but an opposition lawmaker said her colleagues were holding discreet talks with military leaders in hopes that they could build enough support to get large factions to switch sides._____4. Jennifer Glover was assaulted by her fellow guards at a nuclear site in Nevada, she said.And instead of responding to her complaints, the government contractor she worked for eventually fired her.The encounter followed months of sexual harassment that she said began soon after she was hired. Even after reporting the abuse, she continued to face harassment and intimidation. She was reprimanded for calling out sick — to avoid her attackers, she said — and ordered to undergo psychiatric evaluations.“Work went from being so exciting to being a nightmare,” she said._____5. Mark Zuckerberg once vowed to keep WhatsApp and Instagram independent. Now he’s changing course to keep their users inside Facebook’s ecosystem.Facebook’s chief executive has mandated that the social network’s three messaging services — the third is Facebook Messenger — be knitted together. The three services will continue operating as stand-alone apps, but their underlying messaging infrastructure will be unified.The changes also raise questions of data privacy because of how user information may be shared among the services. Today, WhatsApp allows people to sign up with only a phone number. By contrast, Facebook and Facebook Messenger ask for users’ real names.Separately, Amazon’s new facial recognition technology had more difficulty identifying the gender of female and darker-skinned faces than similar services from IBM and Microsoft._____6. Can paid parental leave be too much of a good thing?The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is cutting its unusually generous paid leave in half — to six months — because yearlong leaves were impairing its work, it said. It is also adding a $20,000 stipend for new parents to spend on child care costs.The Gates Foundation’s experience highlights the challenges of devising effective family policies, especially in the U.S. — the only industrialized country not to offer paid leave.On top of questions about whether leave should be mandatory and who should pay for it, there has been little agreement on the right length of time. International evidence points to some answers: Around six months seems to be the magic number. And paid leave is not enough: Financial assistance for child care has a bigger effect on women’s ability to keep working._____7. It was nothing but a box of paperwork.In 1979, a Navy man credited with starting the quirky Hawaiian Iron Man Triathlon was reassigned to the mainland. He was looking for someone to run the third edition of the race — and handed off some papers to a couple who said they would do it.They went on to make the Ironman into an iconic test of endurance and one of the world’s premier sports brands. A Chinese conglomerate paid $650 million for it in 2015. Above, bikes awaiting their riders at the 2018 Ironman World Championship Triathlon.And because of that box, all these years later, the fight over who rightfully owns the race endures.Separately, have you noticed the N.B.A.’s scoring explosion this season? It has to do with the league’s emphasis on pace and 3-pointers, combined with an edict to make defenders back off._____8. Roy Wood Jr. is best known as a correspondent on “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah.”But he has made a niche for himself as one of the country’s foremost comic voices on social issues — especially those affecting African-Americans.He almost didn’t make it this far: He grew up among gang members in Birmingham, Ala., and was arrested in his junior year of college for stolen credit cards. His probation officer encouraged him to keep doing comedy. Tonight, his first Comedy Central special premieres.In the special, Mr. Wood jokes that the national anthem controversy is especially absurd because the tune is based on a British song: “Now, you’re running around telling stolen people in a stolen land that they should stand for a stolen song?”And no matter how much time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you._____9. Ninety-nine percent of the U.S. population lives under light-polluted skies.After one math teacher from Washington, D.C., visited the country’s first International Dark Sky Reserve, 1,400 square miles in Idaho, he wondered how to make sure people know places like it existed.“A lot of people who live in an urban setting and who look like me will never get to see the beauty of our world in its natural state,” he told our graphic journalist.“There is no lock on the door. Nobody is trying to keep people of color out. But not having the opportunity to know about it, that’s a lock.”_____10. Finally, let’s play catch-up.Do you know which country’s economy grew 6.6 percent last year, its slowest pace of growth since 1990? What the Brexit “backstop” is all about?Test your knowledge of the week’s headlines.Have a relaxing weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byWealth MattersBy Paul SullivanDuncan Campbell made his fortune with a timber investment fund he started in 1981 and sold eight years later. But he never forgot his difficult childhood in Portland, Ore., with alcoholic parents and a father who was in and out of prison twice.So when he had the time and wherewithal to devote to philanthropy in 1993, he said, he chose to tackle a problem he knew about: improving the lives of children at greatest risk — not the top students at underperforming schools, but the struggling ones who faced multiple impediments to success. That is the story behind Friends of the Children, which began in Portland and is now in 15 cities with plans to be in 10 more by 2025.“Our core model is to take the most at-risk or most vulnerable child,” Mr. Campbell said. “If there are 100 kindergarten kids, we ask for the eight most troubled, most challenging ones.”The organization has won plaudits from groups like the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a philanthropy for poor children, and researchers at Stanford and the University of Washington.The organization has managed to address three persistent challenges that philanthropists at all levels face. How can private money meaningfully influence a societal problem? How can successes be replicated? And how do you get other philanthropists to support what was essentially your idea?Mr. Campbell said he wanted to give a sense of stability to children who may not have it at home. His organization hires a mentor, or friend, to work with just eight children, who are selected in kindergarten and are expected to remain with the program until they finish high school. The cost per child each year works out to about $10,000.The friends are paid a wage equivalent to or slightly higher than teachers’ salaries in the first years of their careers. And they spend four hours every week with each of their eight students — two hours in the classroom and two helping them in a variety of activities, such as doing homework and going to museums and sporting events they couldn’t afford.From the start, Friends of Children logged data for all of these activities to get a sense of what was working and what wasn’t. It found that the intensive interaction helped build trust, increased the children’s positive social behavior and was more likely to keep the children out of trouble.In many cases, the children’s relationship with their parent or caregiver improved. A recent study by researchers at the University of Washington and Washington State University found that the paid mentor approach provided children and their caregivers with a “consistency and continuity” that was critical to the program’s success.But the data wasn’t always positive. The selection of who got to be mentors made a difference. They had to value education. They also had to be empathetic.One person “did a great interview, but after first six or nine months he wasn’t connecting with the children,” Mr. Campbell said. “He eventually became a parole officer.”After the program had success in Portland, it began to expand to other cities with a ready-made offering.“When we go to new cities, as long as they keep the core, we’re willing to let them experiment with it,” Mr. Campbell said. “It’s fidelity to the model versus learning and adapting over the past 25 years.”The Los Angeles chapter, for example, is focused on at-risk children of people who grew up in the foster-care system. The chapter in Austin, Tex., was the first to translate all the materials into Spanish and hired native Spanish speakers as mentors. The one in Chicago focused on the problem of gang violence.“We’ve had different community solutions within the same program,” said Terri Sorensen, chief executive of Friends of the Children.Kim Starkey Jonker, chief executive of King Philanthropies and a lecturer at Stanford’s business school, has written about Friends in her book “Engine of Impact.” She said the organization’s focus on one mentor for eight children helped it succeed and get results that could be replicated.“Focus is so important,” she said. “Nonprofits stretch themselves too thin.”At the same time, Ms. Jonker said, the national organization knew what it could do well for all the chapters — centralized data collection, marketing, accounting and other back office work — and allowed chapters to adapt to their communities.“Frequently, tensions tear apart nonprofits,” she said.The national organization reached out to professionals who were already established in the cities where there was interest in starting a chapter. The executive director of the Los Angeles chapter, Thomas Lee, had 20 years of experience in child welfare there before joining Friends last year.Mr. Lee was skeptical of the program at first, he said, but was won over by the small mentor-to-child ratio, the competitive pay that would attract qualified candidates and the organization’s ability to retain mentors for seven years, on average.“It’s better not to have a mentor than to have one for a short time,” he said. “It’s common for some kids to bounce around foster home to foster home six, eight, 15 times. That doesn’t help create the strategies for long-term success that we’d want.”James Tyrrell, 29, went through the Friends program in Portland and had the same mentor, John Foster, the entire time. He credits it with helping him deal with the murder of his father when he was 2, his mother’s leaving him with her parents and addiction problems in his family.“It was consistency with that one positive adult in my life,” said Mr. Tyrrell, a court clerk south of Portland. “If I didn’t have him, I don’t know where I’d be.”He added that his mentor had told him, “You know where this path leads, and you can go for it, but why not try this one over here?” That’s what he did, said Mr. Tyrrell, who graduated from college, moved away from his family and now has a wife and two children.David Shapiro, chief executive of Mentor: The National Mentoring Partnership and a board member of Friends, said that Friends chose its mentors well but that mass-producing those bonds was difficult.“It’s much easier at a McDonald’s to say, ‘Wear the uniform, and cook the fries at 112 degrees,’” Mr. Shapiro said. “With humans, it’s a lot more difficult to standardize things, and every human service agency is trying to figure that out now.”One of the criticisms of Friends is how expensive it is to reach one child in a given year, let alone over 12½ years. And getting other donors to give money to someone else’s idea is also difficult.Friends has succeeded with donors who are driven by data and measurable results. It may also help that the charity focuses its marketing material on what it has achieved and aims to do, not on Mr. Campbell’s largess.The organization also requires every chapter to raise three years of operating expenses — about $1.5 million — before it can start work. No more than 40 percent of that money can come from one person, to ensure that the program has broad support.Most recently, Friends received a multimillion-dollar grant over several years from the basketball great Michael Jordan that will go toward chapters in Chicago and Charlotte, N.C. It has received funding in Seattle and Los Angeles from the former Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer and his wife, Connie.Rachel Arnold, a partner at the private equity firm Vista Equity Partners, helped start a chapter in Austin, Tex., with her friend Nancy Pollard by raising $1.8 million from 50 families.“Most of the donors hadn’t given to a program like this before,” Ms. Arnold said. “We got donors on both sides of the political spectrum. It had that broad appeal and data behind it.”Since 2017, when the chapter started, Ms. Arnold’s group has raised $4 million.“If I’m going to invest my time and money into a program, I want to see that impact,” she said. “It also really resonated,” she added, because “I know it to be true that it only takes one person to change a child’s life.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA racetrack veteran compares the Self Racing Cars contest in California to hot-rod modders of old: “This event, with its hackers, tinkerers and engineers, is just like that.”By Bradley BermanPhotographs and Video by Aaron WojackWILLOWS, Calif. — Faraz Khan’s all-electric Kia Soul is his workaday car, but on a drizzly weekend last month, he and his teammate, Jose Rojas, were hoping it would drive them to a racing milestone.So they squeezed on safety helmets, booted up their laptops and inched toward the west track of Thunderhill Raceway in rural Willows. Poised behind the wheel at the starting line, Mr. Khan stared into a laptop balanced on his partner’s knees. “In theory, this should work,” he said. “Although it might be an embarrassment.” The two men laughed off their nerves as Mr. Rojas initiated the car’s homegrown autonomous controls.Mr. Khan and Mr. Rojas, both software engineers, have been using evenings and weekends since last fall to hack the Kia. They are among a loose-knit community of perhaps 50 independent hobbyist-engineers who — for fun and the sake of learning — rip open vehicle dashboards and splice essential wires to turn cars into robots. “The bar is high. You need to get a car, and then you need to really mess with it,” Mr. Khan said with another laugh. “Most people aren’t comfortable with that.”This 2.1-mile serpentine course usually rumbles with Porsches, Mazda roadsters and heaps of American muscle. In late March, however, the paddock hummed with mild-mannered hybrid and electric cars. Several dozen gear heads of a different stripe were here for the fourth installment of Self Racing Cars — an annual open-track event for autonomous vehicles to race against the clock.The auto industry is in the middle of its biggest technology shift in a century, with untold fortunes to be made — eventually. But for now, the promise of self-driving cars often outpaces the reality. This competition in Northern California suggests that it might be easier to let the cars run before they can walk. The racetrack strips away all of the distractions, variables and traffic of street driving and lets the rubber meet the road.Self Racing Cars is the brainchild of Joshua Schachter, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur and an amateur racecar driver. Mr. Schachter hasn’t hacked his personal vehicle but gets a kick out of turning everyday objects, like shopping carts, Etch-a-Sketch toys and water droppers, into improbable robots.A month before the event, he explained that Self Racing Cars was an extension of his interests. “I want to see other people’s solutions to a problem,” he said. “And to learn about problems that I didn’t know existed.”Mr. Khan and Mr. Rojas named their project OpenCaret, and they use laptops and Arduino boards — an open-source microcontroller platform — to trick the car into working as if it were being driven by a person. Mr. Khan mounted a $50 camera on the dashboard to provide vision.Two weeks before the race, in an abandoned Sears parking lot near Mr. Khan’s home, they allowed me to “drive” from the passenger’s seat using a Microsoft Xbox controller. It was a video game come to life. Mr. Khan’s foot hovered over the brake pedal in case my thumb steered off course.Mr. Schachter knows that automated driving is a dangerous challenge on real streets, even for the big names. His event boils it down: Who can log the fastest lap?To transform the track into an engineering laboratory, Mr. Schachter enlisted the help of experienced racing officials. “When Joshua asked me to be a part it, I didn’t hesitate,” said Terry Geiser, who over decades has overseen millions of miles of racing at Northern California’s famed motorsports venues, like Laguna Seca and Sonoma Raceway. He’s the track coordinator and safety engineer for Self Racing Cars.“In 1950, you couldn’t buy a hot rod and take it to a drag strip,” said Mr. Geiser, a retired management consultant. “You had to build it yourself.” He explained the camaraderie shared by old-school car guys — his generation favored British roadsters in the 1960s — who compared notes about better ways to tune an engine or modify an exhaust system. “This event, with its hackers, tinkerers and engineers, is just like that for me,” he said.On their first run, Mr. Khan’s Kia Soul barely made it through the first of Thunderhill’s twists and turns before the steering wheel swung all the way right, all the way left and back, in a loop. He pulled the plug and drove the Kia back to the paddock.Mr. Geiser’s voice then boomed over the loudspeaker: “Humans, you’re up next.”During long pauses in track activity, while coders squash bugs, the course is opened to vehicles driven by red-blooded drivers. Mr. Schachter invited me for a ride in his bright-orange 1992 racing-spec Mazda Miata. It’s entirely manual — no anti-lock brakes and definitely no Xbox controllers.Mr. Schachter precisely maneuvered around the course, flicking the gear-shifter and slamming the brakes before corners. The tail whipped around, and we were on the straightaway approaching 100 miles an hour. How could software and sensors ever compete against a driver’s eyes, hands and firing synapses?On this day of intermittent rain and sun, a five-foot triangular patch of concrete coming off the course’s third turn had a puddle. With each lap, Mr. Schachter refined his approach to the wet spot, adjusting his speed and steering into the skid. “You have to feel it with your hands,” he said.Three years ago, at the first Self Racing Cars event, Audi showed an autonomous sports-sedan prototype. Chris Urmson, a former chief technology officer for Google’s self-driving car company, which eventually became Waymo, was on hand. Other industry luminaries mingled.By contrast, this year’s competition was more like a home-brew computer club. Only four teams, mostly small independent projects, competed.A Tesla Model X joined in. It wasn’t an official entrant but belongs to Andrew Navarro, one of the half-dozen members of Team Soulless, another competitor. Mr. Navarro is a systems engineer and a former Army National Guard aviation officer. He now works at Polysync, a company in Portland, Ore., that makes hardware and software to help companies digitally control steering, brake and throttle controls for development and testing. Polysync lent its silver Kia Niro hybrid to his team.Mr. Navarro is a big fan of Tesla’s Autopilot technology. “As far as vehicles that have lane-keeping and adaptive cruise control, it’s the best around,” he said. But he’s quick to point out that a driver must monitor the Autopilot at all times.For the first couple of turns, the Model X S.U.V. wouldn’t let Mr. Navarro engage Autopilot. The vision system, assisted by radar and ultrasonics, is not designed for a track, so the vehicle couldn’t find the lane markings and other highway objects it expected to see. Autopilot finally engaged, but the vehicle got too close to the track’s edge and quit.If Tesla’s Autopilot couldn’t make it, there wasn’t much hope for Mr. Khan and Mr. Rojas from OpenCaret, the students from Team Soulless or Qibus (a three-week-old company creating remote vehicle-control systems). AEye, an artificial perception outfit, also tested its sensor technology at the track.But lo and behold, a red Lexus CT 200h hybrid hatchback fielded by Point One Navigation was zipping around the track on its own. (All teams must put an engineer behind the wheel ready to take over in a split second.)Aaron Nathan, chief executive for Point One, feels the pain of his competitors. Three years ago, Point One attended as a new company with four people. Now it has 14 employees and is marketing its software to major automakers.“In the beginning, we came just to meet people and talk shop,” Mr. Nathan said. “It was much more like a track day, so people were not reserved like at a trade show.”Mr. Nathan and his co-founder, Bryan Galusha, both have advanced engineering degrees from Cornell. The university participated in the 2000s in the Darpa challenge, an autonomous-vehicle prize competition sponsored by the Defense Department. “I’m very familiar with what it takes to build something that works at Darpa,” Mr. Nathan said. “I feel like Self Racing Cars is the closest thing we have to that now.”Autonomous technology faces many hurdles. Point One focuses on a single critical element: knowing precisely where the vehicle is on the road. The cornerstone of its system is stationary GPS monitoring devices dispersed across the country. Just one will cover a city the size of San Francisco. The white boxes are about the size of a loaf of bread and have an antenna attached. They analyze errors in satellite communications caused by atmospheric interference — and beam the corrections to the vehicle via a cell signal. The technology can pinpoint a car’s location down to half a tire’s worth of precision. It works even in tunnels and other locations that traditional GPS can’t reach. “We do a lot of math,” Mr. Nathan said.To plot the Lexus’ fastest racing line, Mr. Galusha, the company’s chief operating officer and an amateur racer, first drove his 2005 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution at Thunderhill West. Point One precisely recorded the Mitsubishi’s line. This route was then transferred to the Lexus, allowing it to race around the track at up to 70 m.p.h.Two years ago, the company managed a lap in 3 minutes 38 seconds. After sitting out last year, Point One returned last month with a performance of 2 minutes 6 seconds, an event record. That was only 20 seconds slower than Mr. Galusha’s fastest lap in the Lexus. The company’s navigation algorithms performed reliably for 10 nearly identical laps over the weekend.Point One was the only team this year to complete an autonomous lap. But the advantage of its technology would disappear with multiple cars racing at once. Mr. Schachter is considering that proposition.“The essence of racing is dealing with a changing situation,” he said. “I was thinking next year about throwing a tire into the track.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byTwitter borrows most of its best ideas from users. Except the idea to set our feeds on fire.By John HerrmanThe most generous interpretation of Twitter’s history is that it’s a company that has learned a lot from the way people use its product. After early users started reposting each others’ tweets accompanied with an “RT” label, Twitter built retweets. After a user proposed using a pound sign to create groups, and people starting doing it, Twitter incorporated that too. Twitter didn’t have a smartphone app until developers proved, with their own apps, that people really wanted one. After one of those developers had the bright idea to let people pull down on their feeds to refresh them, Twitter bought his app (and got his pull-down-to-refresh patent, too). Before sponsored tweets, users sold their own posts to advertisers. When Twitter launched as a service for sharing “status updates,” it didn’t even have @-replies.A less charitable interpretation of Twitter’s history is that its product is broken and perpetually deficient, and that its users, to whom it already owes a great deal, are forced to come up with solutions of their own in order to enjoy the value that Twitter still offers, somehow, seemingly despite itself. Those users are then left to watch Twitter implement sleek but self-serving versions of those features, allowing a visionless company to succeed further than it already has. There are, of course, some changes for which Twitter users have hopelessly yearned for years (editing tweets; banning Nazis). But there is one missing feature that users and developers have created, multiple times over, that Twitter has not yet stolen or borrowed. It’s one the company has hardly acknowledged, despite its embrace by millions of users. Twitter won't help people delete their own tweets.Twitter does not share how many of it users mass-delete posts, but numbers provided by some of the most popular services that do that suggest it’s far from a fringe activity. The creators of Twitter Archive Eraser, an application for Microsoft Windows that gives users fine control over which posts they want to delete, claim to have more than 600,000 users who have deleted more than 3.3 billion tweets. Tweet Deleter, a web-based service, says more than 1.6 million people have used its web-based service to delete more than 700 million posts. And the creator of TweetDelete, which is perhaps the best known of these services, says his app has been used by more than 4.5 million unique people — and that 1.4 million people now use the service to delete their tweets on an ongoing basis. Richard West, 36, created TweetDelete in 2011. It wasn’t his first Twitter-adjacent project: he had previously created Is.gd, a service for shortening links to keep them from using up Twitter’s character limit, which was bought by the British cloud hosting firm Memset. (Twitter eventually created its own URL shortener.) The idea behind TweetDelete, he said, largely originated with Memset’s co-founder, Kate Craig-Wood. “She wanted a service to automatically purge old tweets from her own Twitter account for privacy reasons,” Mr. West said. “It’s still providing a very valuable service as Twitter’s solution of allowing users to manually delete tweets one by one wasn’t great in 2011, and certainly looks poor now given all that’s happened in the privacy arena since then.” Mr. West now operates the service independently, and plans to release a new version soon.To the extent there has been public discussion about tweet deletion, it has mostly centered on public controversies. A spokesperson for Twitter Archive Eraser mentioned a spike in interest following the 2018 firing of the director James Gunn from the “Guardians of the Galaxy" franchise, after an organized campaign by mostly right-wing Twitter users to flag a series of offensive jokes he had made years before. Some people involved in that campaign also professed a belief that similar tactics — digging up old posts and feigning offense in order to get an enemy fired — had previously been used against them, and that theirs was a campaign of revenge. (Last month, Mr. Gunn was reinstated as director of the third “Guardians” film.) This view on the story of deletion, however, privileges the anxieties of the already powerful. In this telling, it’s about well-off people being brought low again; the fear that their pasts could be used to undo their futures; and, most of all, that what they used to get away with has become a liability. It fails to account for the millions of other deleters with no film franchise to lose.Some of these people are surely ashamed of things they’ve said on Twitter (or at least fearful that someone else will think they should be). But for many tweet deleters, getting rid of old posts is a practical matter — a replacement for simple and obvious Twitter privacy features that simply do not exist. For one user, it may be akin to updating a Facebook profile or brushing up a LinkedIn page; for another, it takes into account the demands of a new job; for another, deletion may be necessary to travel safely. Twitter has stubbornly refused to address widespread harassment on its platform, and tweet deletion offers a way to mitigate it in some forms. (That is probably the most-demanded feature, if you can call it that — that users be able to use the service without being confronted with targeted abuse.) The Twitter Archive Eraser app is, like Twitter, most popular in the United States, but according to its creators has also gained traction in Saudi Arabia, where Twitter, once seen as a tool of liberation, has been embraced by the government as a tool for surveillance and targeted repression. There are even more obvious reasons to think that Twitter’s users, even those who aren’t subjected to targeted abuse, deserve more control over how their content is found and consumed. There is, for example, the concept of time. A user who joined Twitter in middle school might now be in the work force. Another who signed up at 22, around when Twitter launched in 2006, would next year be old enough to run for president. James Zeigler, an indigent defense lawyer and tweet deleter in Washington, D.C., explained via Twitter direct message, “it’s not so much that I perceive there to be that much risk associated with preserving my tweets, but rather that I perceive there to be almost no benefit to it, such that deleting them seems to make more sense than not.” Or, put another way, as Twitter user Saysay Olvido half-joked recently, “I delete tweets because I’m not the same person I was 4min ago.” (She did not say “person.”)Consider the life of a tweet posted ten years ago. After a short and probably uneventful time in a small spotlight, it would have drifted down followers’ feeds and its poster’s own timeline, as if never to be seen again. There was no easy way to find or view old tweets, even your own. Nearly everything about the experience of using Twitter then implied that it was a rolling conversation disappearing behind its users. In 2012, the company gave users a tool to download their own posts as an archive. Few users bothered. But it was a sudden reminder that nothing on the platform was actually disappearing, that the way a service seems to work may bear little relation to how it actually works, and that the context of old posts is often as important as their contents — not so much in the “funny at the time” sense as in the sense that Twitter was, at the time, a completely different machine.Then, in 2014, Twitter made every public tweet ever posted searchable by anyone. This was a feature that many users had demanded. It was not, however, accompanied by commensurate new privacy controls. Billions of messages that had been technically public but effectively private were instantly made accessible to anyone: friend, foe, authority figure, or online passer-by.Those who had been using Twitter for years suddenly found themselves on a very different service. They could search and mine their own old tweets, to try to make sense of conversations they had a decade ago, and they could eliminate them one by one. They could make their entire accounts private, making it harder for potential followers to find or talk with them. They could delete their accounts entirely. Or they could grant full access to their accounts to one of a growing number of Tweet deletion programs, and wipe their accounts clean — a fresh start corresponding with Twitter’s unilateral choice to turn its service from a conversation platform into a search engine. That is also not deletion ideal. Tweet deletion applications require unfettered access to Twitter accounts, leaving users in the position of having to trust that the developers are doing what they say they will, and nothing more. And, while tweet deletion can be empowering to people victimized by or on the platform, it can also help thwart Twitter’s own tools and tactics for dealing with bad actors. It may be unrealistic to expect a social network built on targeted advertising to let its users delete the very content against which it advertises, and through which it understands its targets. “Please note we do not advise using mass-deletion programs,” Twitter’s documentation tells users. (Tweet deletion apps use Twitter’s official developer platform, and could be shut down at the company’s pleasure; Facebook, for example, does not let developers create such programs, but does let users make old posts invisible.) The company suggests an unwieldy and narrow alternative: “If you’re looking to get a fresh start on your Twitter account without losing your username, the best way to do this is to create another account with a temporary username, and then switch the username between your current account and the new account.” Asked if Twitter had taken note of the millions of people expressing interest in having greater control over their privacy or perhaps simply in vaporizing their past Twitter selves, the company declined to share specific plans. “We know that people who use Twitter are interested in more efficient ways to manage, archive or delete their Tweets, and we are thinking about ways we can meet these needs,” said Twitter spokesperson Nicholas Pacilio. Twitter noticed when people starting using image hosting services to share pictures, so it changed to let them upload images directly. When Twitter bumped its character limit from 140 to 280 characters, C.E.O. Jack Dorsey tweeted, “Proud of how thoughtful the team has been in solving a real problem people have when trying to tweet.” Ultimately, the platform seems to be most observant when its users come up with ideas that help people use Twitter more — when we present or solve problems in a way that aligns with the company’s business. But tweet deleters are asking for something Twitter may not be so willing to give them: a way to be less engaged.John Herrman covers tech and media for the Times Magazine, and was one of the first three recipients of The Times's David Carr Fellowship. Previously, he was a reporter for the Business section.  @jwherrman AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byFixesPolice in New York and other cities are turning to a bot to imitate women selling sex to men looking to buy it. It’s a new tool in the drive to break up trafficking rings. By Tina RosenbergMs. Rosenberg is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.Second of two articlesA man texts an online ad for sex.He gets a text back: “Hi Papi. Would u like to go on a date?” There’s a conversation: what he’d like the woman to do, when and where to meet, how much he will pay.After a few minutes, the texts stop. It’s not unexpected — women offering commercial sex usually text with several potential buyers at once. So the man, too, usually texts several women at once.What he doesn’t expect is this: He is texting not with a woman but with a computer program, a piece of artificial intelligence that has taught itself to talk like a sex worker.He doesn’t expect the text a few days later with a picture of a man sitting in jail, and this message: “This is the New York Police Department. Your response to an online ad for prostitution has been logged. Offering to pay or paying someone for sexual conduct is a crime and punishable by incarceration up to 7 years. The NYPD posts hundreds of decoy advertisements that are indistinguishable from the real thing. People who show up in response to our ads are likely to get arrested.”He doesn’t know which ad he texted triggered the message. He doesn’t know what could happen next. But he knows the police have his number, in every sense.“You’re not anonymous,” said Lt. Christopher Sharpe, who runs the department’s Human Trafficking Team. “We may have the ability to find out who you are and what social media you like to use. We are considering engaging people on their social media.“The hard-core people are still going to show up, and we will get this person,” Lieutenant Sharpe continued. “But plenty of people are on the fence. If they think they can get away with it without any harm, they may try to show up. Our segment is really the fence-sitters. If they get this message, we’ve knocked them out of the market. One guy responded: ‘I can’t stop thinking about everything I can lose. My fiancé, my job, my friends. I have something to lose in this.’”Last week, I wrote about the efforts of Truckers Against Trafficking to encourage commercial drivers to spot trafficking and call a national hotline if they see the signs. Sex trafficking is a huge, lucrative industry. It’s global and local — in ordinary American towns. Helping the victims and putting trafficking rings out of business is lifesaving work. But by itself, that can’t end trafficking. If it’s successful, the reduction in supply could even make sex trafficking more lucrative.“If the money is still there to make, sex traffickers will find another victim,” said Robert Beiser, founder of Seattle Against Slavery, a 10-year-old organization that recently introduced a different chatbot, called Freedom Signal. “That’s why disrupting buyers is so important. We don’t want this thing to be an endless hamster wheel.”Targeting buyers is not new. Police departments have long put undercover female officers onto the street and arrested their would-be customers. The Human Trafficking team still does this. (It also investigates leads about sex trafficking. Lieutenant Sharpe said his unit runs about 400 such cases each year; the average age of victims found was under 17. In one case, a single person was controlling 34 women.)The raids also make the chatbots more effective. “Buyers need to feel a credible risk,” said Rob Spectre, the founder and chief executive of childsafe.ai, which built the vice department’s chatbot. “If no one got arrested, no buyer would be deterred.”The new chatbots are safer and cheaper than in-person operations, and they are always on the job. They can deter far more buyers than undercover operations can — before they buy sex. Lieutenant Sharpe said chatbots were “1,200 percent more effective than full operations.”The New York police wait several days to send deterrence messages, so that men won’t know which phone number was the decoy. “The perception for the buyer has to be that any ad could be the ad that sends him to jail,” Mr. Spectre said.While prostitution is still illegal almost everywhere in the United States, the police are increasingly arresting only buyers. For people engaged in prostitution, the most progressive law enforcement agencies offer social services such as shelter, job training and substance abuse treatment. Even if they haven’t been forced into it, they have still chosen a dangerous and unpleasant vocation as the best of their bad options — which means they need more options. (The New York police still make arrests for prostitution, but the numbers have dropped substantially, and most of those arrested go to special diversion courts that give people suspended sentences to receive services like counseling and drug treatment instead of jail.)This approach is much better than treating people in prostitution as criminals. But there is a debate about whether to legalize all of it. “Criminalization makes the most marginalized even more vulnerable to exploitation,” according to R.J. Thompson, managing director of the Sex Workers Project at the Urban Justice Center. “We should take it out of the shadows and treat it as work.” There is trafficking in the restaurant business as well, Mr. Thompson said, but no one argues we shouldn’t eat out.He said that current law enforcement practices to fight sex trafficking end up making life harder for prostitutes in general. Conflating prostitution and sex trafficking “results in actual policies and legislation that impact workers in very negative ways, in the guise of anti-trafficking laws,” he said.A 2012 study of the experiences of 116 countries found that legalizing prostitution — buying as well as selling sex — does make life healthier and safer for prostitutes, and encourages buyers to prefer legal prostitutes over illegal ones, who are more likely to be trafficked. But that same study also found that legalization increased human trafficking, because the demand for commercial sex increased greatly.The New York Police Department started using its decoy chatbot in January 2018. The Cook County Sheriff’s Office in the Chicago area uses a childsafe.ai chatbot as well. Six other cities use it intermittently, as part of a national twice-yearly campaign to go after buyers of sex.Freedom Signal’s developer, Seattle Against Slavery, is still mostly volunteer; the tech team, for example, has one paid employee and a lot of volunteers with day jobs at Amazon or Microsoft. Freedom Signal asks partner cities to cover its costs, and many can, using federal anti-trafficking grants. But if a city can’t pay, Mr. Beiser will provide it free. He said that 13 cities are using it, including the Cook County and Los Angeles County sheriffs, and Boston’s police.In its early days, Freedom Signal placed ads that popped up when someone typed in the usual terms of a search for sex online. Some ads warned of the harm that buying sex can cause. Others offered men help in quitting a behavior harmful to them and their families.Then Mr. Beiser realized that online ads could make it easy to reach people in prostitution — after all, they had published their phone numbers. Freedom Signal began sending mass texts to the numbers. In the text, a trafficking survivor introduces herself and says: “I was in the life, and now I help people find housing and counseling. Are you interested in talking more?”“It was incredibly effective — 10 times more effective than the street outreach efforts we were doing in the past,” Mr. Beiser said. It can be dangerous for a woman to have that conversation on the street. “Maybe a pimp or trafficker is watching them,” he said. “But if we send them a text, they can respond back and delete it. They can have a semi-anonymous conversation and don’t have to look anyone in the eye.”He said that depending on the city, Freedom Signal gets responses from between 15 and 30 percent of the numbers texted. He asks cities that use its buyer deterrence chatbot to also send these texts offering services — as long as the city has services available.The New York Police Department has sent sex buyers thousands of deterrence messages. About one out of five recipients write back, Mr. Spectre said. “They are shook,” he said. “Some are genuinely penitent: ‘I will certainly take it to heart. It’s not happening again.’ A lot of people are angry. There’s a lot of very explicit reaction. And a lot of ‘sorry, it wasn’t me’ — the number of people that appear to be loaning their phone to complete strangers is really high.”One measure of whether the project is effective is whether buyers are caught a second time. Only about 2 percent are, Lieutenant Sharpe said, and that number has been declining over the course of the year. “That could mean they’re being more careful, or they’re outside the online marketplace, or they’re out of the game,” Mr. Spectre said. “But it is a possible indication it’s effective at reducing the buying.”Mr. Beiser said Freedom Signal did internal tests of its effectiveness by not sending deterrence messages to some buyers. Those who got the messages were 50 to 80 percent less likely to be caught again than those who didn’t.Many repeat buyers hang out on hobby boards — the equivalent of Yelp for commercial sex — where men discuss and rate “providers.” Lieutenant Sharpe said that his team members also hang out in these forums; one strategy is to post many “reviews” of a decoy number to drive it to the top of the list.The deterrence messages that work best, according to Mr. Spectre, warn men of the possible consequences they can face, like arrest and significant fines. Talking about the possibility that the woman is trafficked or a minor isn’t as effective. He said that in thousands of text chats, the New York police have seen only 35 men ask the woman’s age.Freedom Signal has one chatbot that mentions that she is 15 — and men went there anyway. Mr. Beiser said that the usual rate of completing a conversation — agreeing on a specific sex act and price — is 40 to 50 percent. The underage bot’s rate is 25 to 30 percent. Men told the fake 15-year-old “fine with me,” or “I’ll treat you right,” and sent kiss emojis.Here’s an actual conversation:Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book “The Haunted Land: Facing Europe’s Ghosts After Communism.” She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of “Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World,” and the World War II spy story e-book “D for Deception ““D for Deception.”To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Huawei gets a potential boost in Europe, Saudi Arabia courts Asia and scientists try to figure out why zebras have stripes. Here’s the latest: In addition to the president’s public criticism of the many investigations that have consumed his time in the White House, an examination by The Times found a sustained, behind-the-scenes effort by Mr. Trump to beat back the probes. Details: The president tried to install a perceived loyalist in charge of a federal inquiry looking into hush money payments for women who, during the presidential campaign, claimed that they had sex with Mr. Trump.How we know: Times reporters interviewed dozens of current and former government officials and others close to Mr. Trump, and reviewed confidential White House documents.Why it matters: Mr. Trump’s public and secret efforts to undermine the investigation and unleash an unprecedented attack of his own law enforcement apparatus have exposed him to accusations of obstruction of justice. Here are more takeaways from our investigation.Reaction: Mr. Trump dismissed the reporting as false and called The Times a “true enemy of the people” — invoking a term Nazi Germany and Stalin-era Soviets used to vilify opponents.Other White House news: The president is preparing to establish a panel to review scientific and defense warnings that climate change is a profound risk to national security. It is to include a physicist who has gained notoriety in the scientific community for suggesting that carbon dioxide — widely believed to be a damaging greenhouse gas — is beneficial to humanity.Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has landed in China for meetings with President Xi Jinping and other officials — the last stop of a whirlwind tour that also included Pakistan and India.His swing through the region is aimed at deepening economic ties. More broadly, it reflects the kingdom’s efforts to diversify its alliances after relations with Western nations soured.Background: Western countries have been distancing themselves since the killing of a dissident writer, Jamal Khashoggi, in Turkey last year, which many suspect was directed by the prince. There has also been increasing scrutiny of the kingdom’s role in the war in Yemen, which the U.N. has called the world’s worst current humanitarian disaster.Why it matters: Saudi Arabia’s renewed focus on Asian countries that have prioritized economic cooperation with the kingdom over human rights concerns sends a signal to the West. “The message is that there are other options out there,” said one expert.In the U.S.: House Democrats opened an investigation this week into the Trump administration’s plans to circumvent normal policymaking process to build nuclear power plants in Saudi Arabia, which they say could spread nuclear weapons technology in the volatile Middle East. Britain, it seems, isn’t too worried about using technology from the Chinese giant, despite warnings from the U.S. that Huawei is beholden to Beijing and a proxy for espionage.The head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said at a conference in Brussels that any risks posed by using Huawei’s technology could be mitigated, citing the strict British security reviews the company has been subjected to for more than 15 years.Why it matters: By the end of the year, Britain will decide whether or not to use Huawei’s technology in building out its 5G network.Countries across Europe that are also considering Huawei for their 5G networks are watching closely, looking for clues on whether the White House’s claims have been exaggerated.The U.S. position: American officials have argued that 5G networks are much more complex than existing systems, and that the many lines of constantly updating code make the systems nearly impossible to protect entirely.The White House, while pressuring allies to block Huawei, hasn’t provided evidence to back up its accusations of espionage, and the company has always denied the claims.A prominent scholar and intellectual, Professor Anand Teltumbde, who has been a vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was jailed and could be charged with conspiring “to overthrow the established government.”But human rights activists and academics around the world, including Noam Chomsky, view the case against him as part of the government’s effort to quash criticism ahead of crucial elections later this year.Background: In a speech in 2017, Mr. Teltumbde compared Mr. Modi to Hitler, saying his policies — which are rooted in Hindu nationalism — amounted to “fascism.” He also blamed the prime minister for religious riots in Gujarat in 2002 that killed more than 1,000 people.Reaction: Alarmed intellectuals have signed international petitions calling on the U.N. to intervene. Islamic State: Two American women who traveled to Syria to join the terrorist group and married its fighters now regret their decisions and want to come back home. Their prospects of doing so may be limited.The Forbidden City: For the first time since 1925, the historic Beijing landmark has opened its doors to the public at night for two days this week, allowing visitors to view its palaces and temples in ethereal lighting.China: Hundreds of people gathered in Beijing to mourn Li Rui, 104, a former aide to Mao Zedong who later became a vocal critic of the party. The funeral followed Communist Party protocol, which his daughter said he would have not have wanted.K-Pop: South Korea’s government, concerned about how “identical” pop stars with the same delicate features and slim figures influence the country’s youth, issued broadcast guidelines to restrict their presence on TV. The move drew widespread criticism from fans, including comparisons to censorship during the country’s military dictatorship.Cyberattacks: Microsoft said that a group of hackers with ties to the Kremlin’s intelligence apparatus targeted research groups and nongovernmental organizations across Europe ahead of European Parliament elections in May, the latest attempt to disrupt opponents of President Vladimir Putin.Brexit: Britain’s divorce from the E.U. is straining its political structures. Three lawmakers who represent the more pro-European wing of Britain’s governing Conservatives resigned from their party in protest of hard-liners’ influence on much of the E.U. withdrawal plan. Two days earlier, eight lawmakers quit the opposition Labour Party.Europe: At a time when populism threatens to undermine the cohesiveness of the bloc, Germany and the Netherlands have come together to create the world’s first binational battalion, an informal test case for a European army.The Roman Catholic Church: Pope Francis and other church leaders convene today for an unprecedented conference on clerical sexual abuse. Ahead of that gathering, our Op-Ed columnist Frank Bruni weighs in on a different problem confronting the church: its treatment of gay Catholics.“Game of Thrones”: With just under two months to go before HBO releases the eighth and final season of its biggest-ever hit, The Times is rolling out a preseason guide to rewatching the first seven seasons, with a deep dive into plot twists and themes you might have forgotten and tributes to the characters loved and lost. Sign up here to get it by email.Zebra science: Scientists dressed horses in patterned “coats” — and think they understand why zebra stripes protect against flies.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Feed the kids in record time with creamy pasta, bacon and peas.Drowning in plastic? We have nine steps to help you cut down your single-use plastic consumption.If you have a chronic illness, researching it will help you take control, and allow your friends and relatives to get a better understanding of what you’re going through.“In fortune, children, friends, or wife,Owe all their zest to thee.”Those grateful lines are from an ode to Sake (or Sheikh) Dean Mahomed, a Bengali who introduced the concept of shampooing to Britain.Mahomed — who died on or around this day in 1851 — had many talents. In 1794, he became the first Indian to publish a book in English. In 1810, he opened the first Indian restaurant in England, the Hindoostane Coffee House in London.But it was his next project that put him on the map. In 1814, he opened a Brighton bathhouse offering luxurious steam baths that ended with a signature head massage, known in India as “champi,” or “shampoo.”He claimed the popular massage cured an assortment of ailments, including asthma and paralysis, in a book titled, aptly, “Shampooing, or, Benefits Resulting From the Use of Indian Medicated Vapor Bath.”He was eventually given a royal warrant as the “Shampooing Surgeon” to the king.Your briefing writer, Alisha Haridasani Gupta, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Conrad De AenlleExchange-traded funds became the next big thing in portfolio management a couple of decades ago by being cheaper and easier to trade than mutual funds.These days, some managers are offering E.T.F.s as tools for specialization at the expense of diversification, carving up the stock market into ever thinner slices for investors eager to find other next big things.E.T.F.s have evolved from covering only broad indexes, such as the S&P 500, to sectors like energy and health care, industries like homebuilding and gold mining, and lately to subsets of industries — niches within niches — often in ultracool areas like robotics, cybersecurity and video gaming that capture investors’ imaginations and then their money.While investment advisers occasionally use thematic funds when managing assets for their clients, they typically encourage small investors to avoid the practice, no matter how enticing it might be to try to find the next Amazon, Netflix or Google before it becomes a technological colossus.“We would prefer that someone build a portfolio around more diversified funds,” said Jason Browne, chief investment strategist of the FundX Investment Group, a firm that manages fund portfolios for high-net-worth individuals. He warned: “If you’re an average investor, you will probably look back and think this is something you were sold and not something thoughtfully invested in that’s aligned with your long-term goals.”Like Mr. Browne, Christopher Cordaro, chief investment officer of RegentAtlantic, a Morristown, N.J., financial-planning firm, said he sees more fund marketing than fund management at work with narrowly focused E.T.F.s.“It sort of reminds me of ‘The Graduate,’ when the guy takes Benjamin aside and says, ‘I’ve got one word: plastics,’” Mr. Cordaro said. Providers of these funds “are looking for things that sound good to people, then they give them an itch they’ll want to scratch.”Sam Masucci, chief executive of the ETF Managers Group, which manages about $3 billion across 12 thematic portfolios, said funds dedicated to such narrow market segments are especially dependent on investor demand and are introduced in areas experiencing a surge in popularity.His company’s thematic funds are a mix of actively managed and passively managed portfolios. In addition to cybersecurity and gaming funds, they cover some highly focused, even obscure, industries, including mobile payments and drone technology. And for anyone worried that all that cutting-edge technology will make human beings too efficient and productive, the company also offers the Alternative Harvest fund, which invests in companies involved in marijuana production.Anyone interested in these areas, despite admonitions like Mr. Browne’s, has several alternatives to choose from.A recent report on thematic E.T.F.s by Todd Rosenbluth, director of E.T.F. and mutual fund research at CFRA Research, highlighted two gaming funds — VanEck Vectors Video Gaming and eSports, and ETFMG Video Game Tech — and two that invest in cybersecurity: ETFMG Prime Cyber Security and First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity.The report also mentioned four that cover the burgeoning field of robotics: ROBO Global Robotics and Automation Index, Global X Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, First Trust Nasdaq Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, and iShares Robotics and Artificial Intelligence.The performance of many of them last year illustrates the perils of owning an idea that would seem to have a lot of promise but so far has not delivered on it. The S&P 500 fell 6.2 percent last year, and the Nasdaq Composite Index, a benchmark for technology stocks, lost 3.9 percent. The ETFMG gaming fund lagged both indexes badly, losing 18.8 percent, while the VanEck gaming fund was down 12.6 percent just since its introduction in mid-October.The cybersecurity funds did much better. ETFMG Prime Security rose 6.5 percent in 2018, and the First Trust fund eked out a 1.3 percent gain.As for the robotics portfolios, their returns have been awful. None of the four came close to matching the Nasdaq index. Losses last year ranged between 14 percent and 29 percent.Because interest in these areas tends to come and go, Mr. Browne uses thematic E.T.F.s to carry out short-term asset allocation decisions. Haim Israel, head of thematic investing at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, by contrast, views several technologies covered by the E.T.F.s as long-term opportunities.The business and investment prospects associated with themes like Big Data, artificial intelligence, privacy and cyberthreats, the report said, will be helped by a “techceleration” resulting from the introduction of so-called 5G technology featuring much faster data transmission rates. The rollout of 5G “will bring about the fastest transformation in human history,” Mr. Israel predicted. The reduced time it will take to transmit data will help the spread of all sorts of technologies, like gaming or self-driving cars, he said.Mr. Israel’s analysis and outlook are plausible — for the world as it is today and for various technologies as they have developed so far. As for five years from now, who knows? Change, often radical and unforeseeable, is a hallmark of the sector, making most forecasts speculative at best. That is one of the main complaints that investment advisers have with thematic E.T.F.s.“We’ve been around long enough to see a lot of the ‘next big thing,’ said Leon LaBrecque, chief executive of LJPR Financial Advisors in Troy, Mich. “Remember Blockbuster or Boston Chicken? Anyone remember the first search engine? New tech becomes old tech.”For investors interested in taking a shot with thematic E.T.F.s, advisers suggest using risk capital, and then only small amounts of it.Mr. Masucci views thematic E.T.F.s as superior alternatives to buying individual stocks. These E.T.F.s “are a tax efficient, liquid, transparent way to give that exposure without relying on advisers’ ability to pick stocks,” he said.But Mr. Cordaro pointed to a conundrum that anyone contemplating investing in thematic E.T.F.s faces: “Because they can be riskier, you wouldn’t want them to be too much of your portfolio,” no more than 5 percent, he said. “The paradox is that’s not going to move the needle that much. You’re not going to make much money on it.”If you still want to try to move the needle, he advises doing it with funds that emphasize smaller, younger businesses that are pure plays in a particular niche and that don’t fill their portfolios with established companies that only dabble in fledgling technology.Mr. Rosenbluth noted in his report, for instance, that the VanEck and ETFMG gaming funds both hold the gaming stocks Activision and Electronic Arts, but only the ETFMG fund owns the larger, more diversified tech stocks Apple and Microsoft. By contrast, the ETFMG cybersecurity portfolio is more skewed toward smaller software companies than First Trust Nasdaq Cybersecurity, while the latter holds more in big defense companies like Raytheon than the ETFMG fund does.As for the robotics funds, the two with portfolios published on third-party sites like Morningstar’s, ROBO Global Robotics and Global X Robotics, each own big companies like Nvidia and Intuitive Surgical, and smaller ones like Helix Energy Solutions.In the end, the most effective way to invest in the next big thing may be to avoid trying to do it through thematic E.T.F.s at all.“Why even go for that ride is the question,” Mr. Browne said. When you own a diversified fund, “whatever drives the economy is going to be in your portfolio. It doesn’t rely on your or my predictions of what that’s going to be.”Mr. LaBrecque recommended a similarly broad, simple approach.“We can buy the S&P 500 and get the new FANGs,” a reference to Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, “and the next acronym of choice,” he said. “And we can get the companies that make all the stuff people buy on Amazon, and the cars people drive to the store to buy the food to eat while they watch Netflix. And when the next thing comes along, we can own that, as well.”AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy David StreitfeldSAN JOSE, Calif. — Silicon Valley ended 2018 somewhere it had never been: embattled.Lawmakers across the political spectrum say Big Tech, for so long the exalted embodiment of American genius, has too much power. Once seen as a force for making our lives better and our brains smarter, tech is now accused of inflaming, radicalizing, dumbing down and squeezing the masses. Tech company stocks have been pummeled from their highs. Regulation looms. Even tech executives are calling for it.In the face of such a sustained assault, this might be a good moment for Big Tech to lie low. It could devote some of its mountains of cash — Apple alone has $237 billion in the bank — to genuine good works, and allay widespread fears it wants to control your data and your destiny.That is not the path the companies are taking.“The tech companies are not flinching,” said Bob Staedler, a Silicon Valley consultant. “Nothing has hit them on the nose hard enough to tell them to cut back. Instead, they are expanding. They’re going around the country acquiring the best human capital so they can create the next whiz-bang thing.”There is so much of life that remains undisrupted. The companies are competing to own the cloud — to become, in essence, the internet’s landlord. They have designs on cities: Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is reworking the definition of community from the inside, as warehouses in rural areas provide the urban middle class with everything they want to stay home all weekend.These changes are only beginning to redefine society. When every home has an Amazon Echo, Google Home, an Apple HomePod or some other smart speaker, the companies are already signaling, all human and metaphysical needs will be fulfilled. For those who insist on venturing out, there will be driverless cars operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence, with consequences unclear even to them.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees, which means it needs somewhere to put them. This isn’t a matter of reconfiguring a floor or two at corporate headquarters. It means building new campuses around the country.Big Tech’s push into New York City and the Washington area has been well documented in recent months, with Google bulking up in the first and Amazon planning satellite offices in both. But even in its backyard of Silicon Valley, which is a mess of traffic congestion and housing prices that have attained levels even well-paid engineers can scarcely afford, there is a boom that, if anything, is accelerating.Anyone who wants to believe Big Tech is chastened should visit a section of San Jose just west of downtown, a jumble of carwashes and auto-body shops with a sprinkling of modern apartments. On a short street there is a house nearly a century old, a tiny thing with only one bath. Google bought it and another house last month in a package deal for $4 million, according to county documents reviewed by The Mercury News.Multiply that real estate transaction by dozens, big parcels and small, totaling hundreds of millions of dollars to date. Google is planning very long term here. The buses, light rail, Caltrain and Amtrak trains that converge on the Diridon Station transit center will give the company an opportunity to embed mass transit into its growth. The eventual result will be a new Google campus of eight million square feet with offices for 20,000 workers, a figure that is more than the company’s total employment in 2009.But Diridon Station is just a part of Google’s Silicon Valley expansion. A week before the company got the two houses, it bought a 100,000-square-foot building in Palo Alto, Calif., for $70 million.Facebook keeps growing, too. In the spring, it leased one million square feet in the Silicon Valley community of Sunnyvale for its fast-growing community operations team, which deals with safety and security issues confronting Facebook users. And it will soon move this year into 750,000 square feet in a San Francisco tower, making it the third-biggest tech tenant in the city, after Salesforce and Uber.In total, Google’s employment increased 21 percent in the last year. Facebook’s work force rose by 45 percent in that time, to 34,000, and it is advertising 2,700 additional jobs.Amazon’s head count tripled over the last three years, thanks to its warehouses and the acquisition of Whole Foods. It is only the second company in the United States to employ more than 500,000 people — and that is not counting its contractors.The expansion underlines the dizzying truth of Big Tech: It is barely getting started.“For all intents and purposes, we’re only 35 years into a 75- or 80-year process of moving from analog to digital,” said Tim Bajarin, a longtime tech consultant to companies including Apple, IBM and Microsoft. “The image of Silicon Valley as Nirvana has certainly taken a hit, but the reality is that we the consumers are constantly voting for them.”That’s evident in how robust Big Tech’s businesses remain. Last March, the research firm eMarketer said Facebook, including its less controversial photo-sharing site, Instagram, would earn $21 billion this year from digital ads in the United States. In September, it raised that forecast to $22.87 billion.EMarketer also revised up its forecasts of Google’s digital ad revenues in the United States for 2018, 2019 and 2020. The third big digital advertising recipient is Amazon, which is far behind the leaders but gaining ground fast.The contradiction is becoming increasingly obvious. One important way Big Tech serves its customers is by tracking their movements and purchases, which is beginning to unnerve at least some of us. In a Pew Research Center survey in June, 42 percent of adult Facebook users said they had taken a break of several weeks from the site. But even as we say we trust tech less, we invite it deeper into our lives.Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Alphabet, Google’s parent company, together generated $166.9 billion in revenue in the third quarter of 2018 alone — up 24 percent from a year earlier, when the four companies hauled in $134.4 billion.“Much as people are now wary or even unhappy with the outsized power held by Facebook, Google, Amazon, etc., they are simultaneously quite dependent on the services they provide,” said David Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Big Tech needs to be regulated, many are beginning to argue, and yet there are worries about giving that power to the government.“The government doesn’t have a good clue,” said Mr. Bajarin, the consultant. “They’re not even asking the kind of questions that would drive to regulation.”Which leaves regulation up to the companies themselves, always a dubious proposition.“For Facebook to have a better year in 2019, it needs to be more upfront and transparent,” said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at eMarketer. This was also the advice Facebook got for 2018, to little avail.All this could change if the anti-tech mood continues to swell or the economy hits a really rough patch. On the other hand, the last recession tended to work in Big Tech’s favor by giving smaller competitors even more to worry about.During the 2008 financial crisis, Amazon’s North American media sales increased 20 percent. Borders, one of its biggest book-selling competitors, saw revenue drop 9 percent, reported a record loss and was soon defunct.With so little to really worry about, Big Tech is planning for a future far beyond any present-day turmoil. Google, which has 3,500 job openings, says it is too early to say what the thousands of Diridon employees will do. But Jonathan Taplin, director emeritus of the Annenberg Innovation Lab at the University of Southern California, has a good idea: everything.“They’re in the transportation business, the medical business, every business,” said Mr. Taplin, a frequent critic of how Big Tech took over a decentralized, independent internet. “There is no aspect of your life that they will not be involved in.”Follow David Streitfeld on Twitter: @DavidStreitfeld.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. We’ll be off on Monday for the American holiday of Martin Luther King Day. Now back to the news: America’s expanded antimissile efforts, China’s population crisis, and the economic costs of climate change. President Trump announced new investments in missile defenses aimed at shielding the nation against growing threats from North Korea, China, Russia and Iran.“Our goal is simple: to ensure that we can detect and destroy any missile launched against the United States anywhere, any time, any place,” Mr. Trump said at the Pentagon.Background: Antimissile systems are extremely costly — the U.S. has spent over $300 billion on them to date — and also extremely difficult to get right. It has proved challenging to intercept speeding targets in the sky: A system introduced in 2004 has failed in 50 percent of tests.Timing: The announcement came a day before Vice President Mike Pence is scheduled to meet with North Korea’s lead nuclear program negotiator, Kim Yong-chol, in Washington. Earlier this week, Mr. Pence said the U.S. was still waiting for “concrete steps from North Korea” toward denuclearization — a demand that has so far stalled dialogue between the two countries.Chinese academics recently issued a stark warning: The country is facing its most precipitous population decline in decades, a trend that could have far-reaching economic and political consequences.Details: Preliminary numbers suggest the total number of births in China in 2018 could fall to 15 million, down from 17.2 million in 2017. Women need to have 2.1 children to maintain population levels — but the official fertility rate is currently 1.6 children per women, and even that number is disputed.Given this trajectory, the academics estimated that the country’s population could start shrinking in 2027. And some experts believe that could come sooner or has already begun.One of the main reasons for the trend was long-term consequences from China’s “one child” policy to slow population growth, experts said. The policy also created gender imbalances.Why it matters: With fewer workers in the future, the government could struggle to pay for a population that is growing older and living longer.The prime minister has to return to Parliament by Monday with an updated blueprint for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. That plan is then scheduled to go to a vote on Jan. 29.Days after Parliament resoundingly rejected her initial Brexit plan, she invited opposition party leaders to discuss a compromise. But the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, asked her first to rule out a “no-deal” exit. Mrs. May rejected the demand as an “impossible condition.”View from Europe: E.U. officials initially saw Britain’s growing political crisis as a win, standing strong and united in the face of confusion and chaos in London. But now that it looks increasingly likely that Britain could leave the bloc without a deal, the E.U. is starting to worry.Analysis: Mrs. May, who has remained “indestructible” in “the bizarro world that is British politics,” might go down in history books for her resilience. The prime minister “awakes every day to discover herself in a dire political crisis,” writes our London correspondent. “And every day survives, in her grim, implacable way.” The country’s largest shipyard, about 50 miles from the capital city of Manila, has been dragged into a geopolitical tangle with China.Background: The site was a major American naval base during the Cold War. In 2006, a local unit of a South Korean company leased it and employed 20,000 people to build cargo ships. Then earlier this month, the company filed for bankruptcy, putting the site up for grabs.What now? Officials said two Chinese companies were among the several foreign firms expressing interest in the site. But the country’s defense secretary is now suggesting keeping the shipyard under government control to keep it out of Beijing’s hands.Why it matters: The shipyard is changing hands amid growing concern about Chinese companies, even those that aren’t government controlled, acting as proxies for Beijing’s influence and espionage efforts. At the same time, China continues to occupy and build military bases on islands in the South China Sea, near the Philippines. U.S. shutdown: President Trump hit back at House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for threatening to delay his State of the Union address, by postponing her planned trip abroad.Jamal Khashoggi: A new book by three Turkish journalists offers the most comprehensive description of the killing of the Saudi dissident in Istanbul last year, drawing on audio recordings obtained by Turkish intelligence officials.Hitachi: The company said it was suspending work on a $19.3 billion nuclear power plant in North Wales, which had been expected to provide hundreds of new local jobs, after the British and Japanese governments failed to agree on financial terms. 1MDB: Goldman Sachs, in an attempt to minimize its own role in the multibillion dollar fraud scheme involving a Malaysian investment fund, has started a smear campaign against a former partner, depicting him as a master con man.Facebook: The social media company said it deleted nearly 500 pages and accounts related to two disinformation campaigns originating from Russia that targeted users in Eastern Europe and Central Asia.Microsoft: The company pledged $500 million to help address the affordable housing crisis in Seattle, one of a number of cities where the explosive growth of the technology industry has contributed to widening inequality.BlackRock: Larry Fink, the investment firm’s chief executive, urged companies around the world to take leadership on social issues, especially where governments “fail to do so effectively.”Climate change: In the coming decades, many of the world’s biggest economic questions will be, at their core, climate questions. Here are some of the big ones.Perspective: “The malign incompetence of the Brexiteers,” the Op-Ed contributor Pankaj Mishra argues, has parallels in the British Empire’s ruinous departure from India.Australian Open: Simona Halep, Serena Williams and Novak Djokovic advanced to the third round. Follow along here for more updates from Melbourne.The Oscars: It looks as if this year’s awards ceremony won’t have a host to steer the ship. Here’s why that might not be such a bad thing for the show.Tiny Love Stories: Our column of reader-submitted romantic tales of no more than 100 words is going global, starting with Australia. If you’ve got a short personal story about the ties that bind (and sometimes break), go to nytimes.com/tinylovestories and write “AUSTRALIA” at the start of your entry.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Cauliflower rice belongs in your weekly recipe rotation.Train your memory, using systems that connect numbers to letters that can transform to sounds, sentences and images.Escaping the frenetic digital world might seem impossible but it’s manageable through meditation.The North American International Auto Show in Detroit has lost of much of its cachet as the industry’s focus has shifted from horsepower to high tech. This year’s event, which began this week, hardly resembles the glitzy spectacles of the past. Only a handful of major new models are making debuts. Porsche, BMW, Audi, Mercedes and Mazda stayed home.But for many years it was a can’t-miss affair.To turn heads, Chrysler became famous for rollicking presentations worthy of halftime at the Super Bowl. In 1992, it had its new Jeep Grand Cherokee arrive by crashing through a glass wall. (The fun begins in this video at 3:14.) It once presented the Chrysler Aspen S.U.V. by simulating a blizzard. Most memorable was probably the cattle drive. To promote its new Dodge Ram pickup, the company staged one outside the convention center. The new truck emerged from a herd of 120 longhorn, led by cowboys on horseback — in the middle of downtown Detroit.Neal E. Boudette, who is covering the Detroit Auto Show for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. We’ll be off on Monday for the American holiday of Martin Luther King Day.Now, back to the news. The U.S. made plans to expand missile defense, Britain waited for the next move from its prime minister, and President Trump hit back at Nancy Pelosi. Here’s the latest: President Trump announced new investments in missile defenses aimed at shielding the nation from missile attacks, though he did not mention the largest U.S. nuclear adversaries, Russia or China.“Our strategy is grounded in one overriding objective: to detect and destroy every type of missile attack against any American target, whether before or after launch,” Mr. Trump said at the Pentagon. In fact, the plans released by the Pentagon are aimed largely at destroying small numbers of missiles launched by regional powers like Iran or North Korea, rather than overwhelming strikes from Russia or China.Background: Antimissile systems are extremely costly — the U.S. has spent more than $300 billion on them to date — and also extremely difficult to get right. Intercepting speeding targets in the sky is like hitting a bullet with a bullet, and a system introduced in 2004 has failed in 50 percent of tests.Timing: The announcement came a day before Vice President Mike Pence is scheduled to meet with North Korea’s lead nuclear program negotiator, Kim Yong-chol, in Washington. Earlier this week, Mr. Pence said the U.S. was still waiting for “concrete steps from North Korea” toward denuclearization — a demand that has so far stalled dialogue between the two countries.The prime minister has to return to Parliament by Monday with an updated blueprint for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. That plan is to go to a vote on Jan. 29.Days after Parliament resoundingly rejected her initial Brexit plan, she invited opposition politicians to discuss a compromise. But the opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn asked her first to rule out a “no-deal” exit. Mrs. May rejected the demand as an “impossible condition.”View from Brussels: E.U. officials initially saw Britain’s growing political crisis as a victory, discouraging other countries from wanting to leave the bloc and contrasting it with the E.U.’s unity. But now it looks increasingly likely that Britain could leave the bloc without a deal, and the E.U. is starting to worry.Perspective: British leaders have come under sharp criticism over Brexit. Their failings, the Op-Ed contributor Pankaj Mishra argues, have parallels in the British Empire’s ruinous departure from India.President Trump’s squabbling with Democrats grew more acid as the partial government shutdown continued. After Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, threatened to cancel his planned State of the Union address, Mr. Trump announced on Thursday that he was postponing an overseas trip she had planned that he called a “public relations event,” and Washington more and more came to resemble a sandbox filled with children.Details: In a letter dripping with sarcasm, Mr. Trump denied her and her delegation military transport and suggested they might fly commercial. A spokesman for Ms. Pelosi noted that they were planning to travel to Afghanistan, a war zone, to see U.S. forces, and added that Mr. Trump had visited troops in Iraq during the shutdown. Shutdown: A makeshift national safety net is spreading slowly and unevenly as the longest shutdown in history staggers toward its one-month mark.President Vladimir Putin of Russia arrived on Thursday in Serbia, a historical Russian ally where his likeness is on everything from mugs to underwear. Serbia’s president, Aleksandar Vucic, welcomed him by busing in tens of thousands of people for a rally. The two announced a big new gas deal, and many who showed up for the events said they were incentivized, including with five liters of milk. Context: Serbia is once again a fulcrum of Balkan volatility, and the visit has been a display of what a researcher calls Putin’s orchestra in the country, powered by a growing number of pro-Russia media outlets and nongovernmental groups. But the acoustics are complicated by the fact that Serbia is seeking to join E.U.Reaction: Tens of thousands of people have been regularly protesting through the winter against Mr. Vucic’s increasingly Putin-like and authoritarian style, and the country’s opposition leader said he feared the E.U. would further overlook his autocratic tendencies in a bid to counter Russia.Looking ahead: To join the E.U., Serbia would have to compromise on Kosovo, which Russia and Serbia refuse to recognize, and which Mr. Putin accused of ratcheting up tensions. Mr. Vucic has floated partitioning Kosovo, a risky proposition that John Bolton, President Trump’s national security adviser, has said he’s open to.Jamal Khashoggi: A new book by three Turkish journalists offers the most comprehensive description of the killing of the Saudi dissident in Istanbul last year, drawing on audio recordings obtained by Turkish intelligence officials.Hitachi: The company said it was suspending work on a $19.3 billion nuclear power plant in North Wales that had been expected to provide hundreds of new local jobs, after the British and Japanese governments failed to agree on financial terms. Colombia: Ten people were killed and 72 wounded by a bombing at a Bogotá police academy that raised the specter of a return to the country’s violent past and came at a time when President Iván Duque, according to a rights group, has been promoting military officers accused of extrajudicial killings.Family separations: The Trump administration most likely separated thousands more children from their parents at the Southern border than was previously believed, according to a report by government inspectors.Facebook: The social media company said it deleted nearly 500 pages and accounts related to two disinformation campaigns originating from Russia that targeted users in Eastern Europe and Central Asia.Microsoft: The company pledged $500 million to help address the affordable housing crisis in Seattle, one of a number of cities where the explosive growth of the technology industry has contributed to widening inequality.China: The country is facing its most precipitous population decline in decades, a trend that could have far-reaching economic and political consequences.Australian Open: Simona Halep, Serena Williams and Novak Djokovic advanced to the third round. Follow along here for more updates. A walk on the wild side: There is a growing movement at British museums to share largely untold stories hidden among their pieces around subjects like ancient sexuality and gender fluidity. The Oscars: It looks as if this year’s awards ceremony won’t have a host to steer the ship. Here’s why that might not be such a bad thing for the show.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Cauliflower rice belongs in your weekly recipe rotation.Train your memory using systems that connect numbers to letters that can transform to sounds, sentences and images.Escaping the frenetic digital world might seem impossible, but it’s manageable through meditation.The North American International Auto Show in Detroit has lost of much of its cachet as the industry’s focus has shifted from horsepower to high tech. This year’s event, which began this week, hardly resembles the glitzy spectacles of the past. Only a handful of major new models are making debuts. Porsche, BMW, Audi, Mercedes and Mazda stayed home.But for many years it was a can’t-miss affair.To turn heads, Chrysler became famous for rollicking presentations worthy of halftime at the Super Bowl. In 1992, it had its new Jeep Grand Cherokee arrive by crashing through a glass wall. (The fun begins in this video at 3:14.) It once presented the Chrysler Aspen S.U.V. by simulating a blizzard. Most memorable was probably the cattle drive. To promote its new Dodge Ram pickup, the company staged one outside the convention center. The new truck emerged from a herd of 120 longhorn, led by cowboys on horseback — in the middle of downtown Detroit.Neal E. Boudette, who is covering the Detroit Auto Show for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byA small group of well-educated professionals enjoys rising wages, while most workers toil in low-wage jobs with few chances to advance.By Eduardo PorterPHOENIX — It’s hard to miss the dogged technological ambition pervading this sprawling desert metropolis.There’s Intel’s $7 billion, seven-nanometer chip plant going up in Chandler. In Scottsdale, Axon, the maker of the Taser, is hungrily snatching talent from Silicon Valley as it embraces automation to keep up with growing demand. Start-ups in fields as varied as autonomous drones and blockchain are flocking to the area, drawn in large part by light regulation and tax incentives. Arizona State University is furiously churning out engineers. And yet for all its success in drawing and nurturing firms on the technological frontier, Phoenix cannot escape the uncomfortable pattern taking shape across the American economy: Despite all its shiny new high-tech businesses, the vast majority of new jobs are in workaday service industries, like health care, hospitality, retail and building services, where pay is mediocre.The forecast of an America where robots do all the work while humans live off some yet-to-be-invented welfare program may be a Silicon Valley pipe dream. But automation is changing the nature of work, flushing workers without a college degree out of productive industries, like manufacturing and high-tech services, and into tasks with meager wages and no prospect for advancement.Automation is splitting the American labor force into two worlds. There is a small island of highly educated professionals making good wages at corporations like Intel or Boeing, which reap hundreds of thousands of dollars in profit per employee. That island sits in the middle of a sea of less educated workers who are stuck at businesses like hotels, restaurants and nursing homes that generate much smaller profits per employee and stay viable primarily by keeping wages low.Even economists are reassessing their belief that technological progress lifts all boats, and are beginning to worry about the new configuration of work. Recent research has concluded that robots are reducing the demand for workers and weighing down wages, which have been rising more slowly than the productivity of workers. Some economists have concluded that the use of robots explains the decline in the share of national income going into workers’ paychecks over the last three decades.Because it pushes workers to the less productive parts of the economy, automation also helps explain one of the economy’s thorniest paradoxes: Despite the spread of information technology, robots and artificial intelligence breakthroughs, overall productivity growth remains sluggish.“The view that we should not worry about any of these things and follow technology to wherever it will go is insane,” said Daron Acemoglu, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Semiconductor companies like Intel or NXP are among the most successful in the Phoenix area. From 2010 to 2017, the productivity of workers in such firms — a measure of the dollar value of their production — grew by about 2.1 percent per year, according to an analysis by Mark Muro and Jacob Whiton of the Brookings Institution. Pay is great: $2,790 a week, on average, according to government statistics.But the industry doesn’t generate that many jobs. In 2017, the semiconductor and related devices industry employed 16,600 people in the Phoenix area, about 10,000 fewer than three decades ago. “We automate the pieces that can be automated,” said Paul Hart, a senior vice president running the radio-frequency power business at NXP’s plant in Chandler. “The work force grows but we need A.I. and automation to increase the throughput.”Axon, which makes the Taser as well as body cameras used by police forces, is also automating whatever it can. Today, robots make four times as many Taser cartridges as 80 workers once did less than 10 years ago, said Bill Denzer, Axon’s vice president for manufacturing. Workers’ jobs were saved because the company brought other manufacturing work back from Mexico.The same is true across the high-tech landscape. Aircraft manufacturing employed 4,234 people in 2017, compared to 4,028 in 2010. Computer systems design services employed 11,000 people in 2017, up from 7,000 in 2010.Most of the growth in the Phoenix-area job market since 1990 has come in low-productivity industries, like health care. Productivity is the dollar value of the output per worker in each industry. The job sectors in the charts below represent about two-thirds of all Phoenix-area jobs.Productivity and job growth in the Phoenix metropolitan areaSELECTEDLOW-PRODUCTIVITYJOBSSHARE OFALL JOBS19902017AVERAGEWEEKLY2017 WAGECHANGEIN WAGES1990-20170%5%10%Accommodation and food services$420+28%Administrative and waste services750+44Educational services832+24Retail trade647+8Health care and social assistance1,024+12SELECTEDHIGH-PRODUCTIVITYJOBS0%5%10%Manufacturing$1,422+34%Finance and insurance1,432+47Wholesale trade1,504+52Information1,420+44Real estate and rental and leasing1,043+512017 PRODUCTIVITYIN THOUSANDS$0$100$200$300+10PCT-POINTCHANGEIN SHAREOF JOBS1990 - 2017Health careand socialassistance+5Administrativeand waste servicesAccommodationand foodservicesFinance andinsuranceEducationalservicesINCREASEDSHAREDECREASEDSHAREInformationReal estateand rentaland leasingRetail tradeWholesaletrade–5Manufacturing–10LESS PRODUCTIVEMORE PRODUCTIVEProductivity and job growthin the Phoenix metropolitan areaSELECTEDLOW-PRODUCTIVITYJOBSSHARE OFALL JOBSAVG.WEEKLY2017WAGEPCT.CHG.1990-201720171990Accommodationand food services$420+28%Administrativeand waste services750+44Educationalservices832+24Retail trade647+8Health care andsocial assistance1,024+120%510SELECTEDHIGH-PRODUCTIVITYJOBSSHARE OFALL JOBSAVG.WEEKLY2017WAGEPCT.CHG.1990-201720171990Manufacturing$1,422+34%Finance andinsurance1,432+47Wholesale trade1,504+52Information1,420+44Real estate andrental and leasing1,043+510%510+10PCT-POINTCHANGEIN SHAREOF JOBS1990 -2017Health careand socialassistance+5Administrativeand waste servicesAccommodationand food servicesEducationalservicesFinance andinsuranceINCREASEDSHAREDECREASEDSHAREInformationRealestateand rentaland leasingRetailtradeWholesaletrade–5Manufacturing–10$0$100$200$3002017 PRODUCTIVITYIN THOUSANDSBy The New York Times | Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Brookings (productivity)To find the bulk of jobs in Phoenix, you have to look on the other side of the economy: where productivity is low. Building services, like janitors and gardeners, employed nearly 35,000 people in the area in 2017, and health care and social services accounted for 254,000 workers. Restaurants and other eateries employed 136,000 workers, 24,000 more than at the trough of the recession in 2010. They made less than $450 a week.The biggest single employer in town is Banner Health, which has about 50,000 workers throughout a vast network that includes hospitals, outpatient clinics and home health aides. Though it employs high-paid doctors, it relies on an army of lower paid orderlies and technicians. A nursing assistant in Phoenix makes $31,000 a year, on average. A home health aide makes $24,000. While Banner invests heavily in technology, the machines do not generally reduce demand for workers. “There are not huge opportunities to increase productivity, but technology has a significant impact on quality,” said Banner’s chief operating officer, Becky Kuhn.The 58 most productive industries in Phoenix — where productivity ranges from $210,000 to $30 million per worker, according to Mr. Muro’s and Mr. Whiton’s analysis — employed only 162,000 people in 2017, 14,000 more than in 2010. Employment in the 58 industries with the lowest productivity, where it tops out at $65,000 per worker, grew 10 times as much over the period, to 673,000.The same is true across the national economy. Jobs grow in health care, social assistance, accommodation, food services, building administration and waste services. Not only are some of the tasks tough to automate, employers have little financial incentive to replace low-wage workers with machines.On the other end of the spectrum, the employment footprint of highly productive industries, like finance, manufacturing, information services and wholesale trade, has shrunk over the last 30 years.Economists have a hard time getting their heads around this. Steeped in the belief that technology inevitably leads to better jobs and higher pay, they long resisted the notion that the Luddites of the 19th century, who famously thrashed the weaving machines that were taking their jobs, might have had a point. “In the standard economic canon, the proposition that you can increase productivity and harm labor is bunkum,” Mr. Acemoglu said.By reducing prices and improving quality, technology was expected to raise demand, which would require more jobs. What’s more, economists thought, more productive workers would have higher incomes. This would create demand for new, unheard-of things that somebody would have to make.To prove their case, economists pointed confidently to one of the greatest technological leaps of the last few hundred years, when the rural economy gave way to the industrial era.In 1900, agriculture employed 12 million Americans. By 2014, tractors, combines and other equipment had flushed 10 million people out of the sector. But as farm labor declined, the industrial economy added jobs even faster. What happened? As the new farm machines boosted food production and made produce cheaper, demand for agricultural products grew. And farmers used their higher incomes to purchase newfangled industrial goods.The new industries were highly productive and also subject to furious technological advancement. Weavers lost their jobs to automated looms; secretaries lost their jobs to Microsoft Windows. But each new spin of the technological wheel, from plastic toys to televisions to computers, yielded higher incomes for workers and more sophisticated products and services for them to buy.Something different is going on in our current technological revolution. In a new study, David Autor of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Anna Salomons of Utrecht University found that over the last 40 years, jobs have fallen in every single industry that introduced technologies to enhance productivity. The only reason employment didn’t fall across the entire economy is that other industries, with less productivity growth, picked up the slack. “The challenge is not the quantity of jobs,” they wrote. “The challenge is the quality of jobs available to low- and medium-skill workers.”Adair Turner, a senior fellow at the Institute for New Economic Thinking in London, argues that the economy today resembles what would have happened if farmers had spent their extra income from the use of tractors and combines on domestic servants. Productivity in domestic work doesn’t grow quickly. As more and more workers were bumped out of agriculture into servitude, productivity growth across the economy would have stagnated.“Until a few years ago, I didn’t think this was a very complicated subject; The Luddites were wrong and the believers in technology and technological progress were right,” Lawrence Summers, a former Treasury secretary and presidential economic adviser, said in a lecture at the National Bureau of Economic Research five years ago. “I’m not so completely certain now.”The growing awareness of robots’ impact on the working class raises anew a very old question: Could automation go too far? Mr. Acemoglu and Pascual Restrepo of Boston University argue that businesses are not even reaping large rewards for the money they are spending to replace their workers with machines.But the cost of automation to workers and society could be substantial. “It may well be that,” Mr. Summers said, “some categories of labor will not be able to earn a subsistence income.” And this could exacerbate social ills, from workers dropping out of jobs and getting hooked on painkillers, to mass incarceration and families falling apart.Silicon Valley’s dream of an economy without workers may be implausible. But an economy where most people toil exclusively in the lowliest of jobs might be little better.Eduardo Porter joined The Times in 2004 from The Wall Street Journal. He has reported about economics and other matters from Mexico City, Tokyo, London and São Paulo.    @portereduardo AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A lackluster start of the year for the global economy has prompted the International Monetary Fund to downgrade its predictions for growth in the coming months, the WSJ reports.• “The I.M.F.’s latest economic forecasts cut the outlook for growth in 2019 to 3.3 percent from estimates of 3.5 percent in January and 3.7 percent in October. The decline has been broadly felt, with all major advanced economies, including the U.S., and most major emerging-market economies seeing deterioration in their outlook.”• The I.M.F. pointed to “trade tensions and tariff hikes between the United States and China, a decline in business confidence, a tightening of financial conditions, and higher policy uncertainty across many economies” as reasons for the slowdown.Don’t panic. As Daniel Moss of Bloomberg Opinion points out, the numbers aren’t so bad:• “Yes, it’s a cut. But not a dramatic one. These numbers are a ways from one I.M.F. definition of recession, 2.5 percent, and miles from the contraction recorded in 2009.”• “It’s entirely possible the world economy muddles through this year. It might be messy, and there will be regional divergences aplenty. The economy may not feel great, particularly depending on where you are. That doesn’t mean it’s terrible.”Federal prosecutors unveiled new money-laundering charges against 16 parents in the college bribery case, including the actress Lori Loughlin, the former TPG executive Bill McGlashan and the former Pimco C.E.O. Douglas Hodge.The new charges carry tougher penalties than the first wave of accusations of mail and wire fraud. The original charges command a fine of at least $250,000, while money laundering involves fines of $500,000 or twice the value of the property involved.Some legal experts think jail time is possible for these defendants. Duncan Levin, a former federal prosecutor, told the WaPo that money-laundering charges are “one of the most powerful weapons” that the Justice Department can wield in court, and can lead to much longer sentences than simpler fraud charges.The new charges may be an attempt to force cooperation, legal commentators added. Some defendants, including the actress Felicity Huffman and the onetime corporate lawyer Gordon Caplan, said this week that they would plead guilty to the lesser wire fraud charges. They haven’t been charged with money laundering.Mr. McGlashan still plans to fight. The financier is accused of paying $50,000 to cheat on his son’s ACT and agreeing to pay $250,000 to help get him into U.S.C. But a lawyer for Mr. McGlashan said, “The prosecutor’s case against Mr. McGlashan is deeply flawed and ignores important exculpatory facts.”Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic are clamping down on misleading tactics used by some major tech companies to gain data from users.• Facebook will change its terms of service after bowing to pressure from the European Commission. The company “will spell out for users how the social-media platform makes money by using their personal information to sell targeted advertising, and clarify that it can be held liable for misuse of such data,” the WSJ reports.• American lawmakers are scrutinizing how users are coaxed into handing over data. So-called dark patterns, like user-interface designs that encourage people to share data that they may otherwise have kept private, are the focus of a new bill introduced by Senators Mark Warner and Deb Fischer.“For years, social media platforms have been relying on all sorts of tricks and tools to convince users to hand over their personal data without really understanding what they are consenting to,” Mr. Warner said in a statement.“Our goal is simple: to instill a little transparency in what remains a very opaque market and ensure that consumers are able to make more informed choices about how and when to share their personal information.”These are the latest efforts to regulate Big Tech, part of a campaign that is gathering pace among lawmakers around the world.Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain is in Brussels again today for a summit meeting with European leaders, where she will seek an extension to the troubled Brexit process. She’s unlikely to get exactly what she wants.Mrs. May went on a “begging tour,” in the words of the German publication Der Spiegel. She visited Berlin and Paris yesterday to plead with national leaders to grant her more time to salvage her faltering withdrawal plans, Stephen Castle of the NYT explains.Mrs. May wants to delay Brexit until June 30. But that would require her to get a deal through Parliament quickly, which seems unlikely. If she can’t secure an extension, Britain would crash out of the bloc without a deal on Friday.The E.U. is open to a longer postponement. The European Council president, Donald Tusk, is said to prefer an extension as long as a year, Bloomberg reports — with the option of an early exit if the British government ends its deadlock. (France reportedly wants such an extension to carry strict conditions.)The hope for a longer extension is that a deadlock could be broken by any of these events happening by the end of the year:• Parliament approving a deal.• A general election.• A second referendum.• A new prime minister.More: How London banks are trying to dodge Brexit.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told House lawmakers yesterday that his department had discussed the potential release of President Trump’s tax returns with White House lawyers.It was the first public acknowledgment that such discussions have taken place. Mr. Mnuchin, whose department oversees the I.R.S., will have a role in deciding whether to honor Democrats’ request for the president’s tax returns.The Treasury secretary said that he hadn’t personally spoken with anyone from the White House, and that the discussions so far had been “informational.” He added that he had not been briefed on the talks otherwise.Democrats have demanded the returns under a legal statute that they say gives them a right to the information. Mr. Trump and his staff have said they will fight the request.Mr. Mnuchin deflected questions on how he will proceed. He told lawmakers that he wouldn’t let politics interfere with his decision, but added that Mr. Trump had a right to privacy.Democrats were angry. “I think the fact that there was any communication with the White House about this is deeply troubling and certainly violates the spirit of the law, if not the letter of the law,” Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York said.The firm said yesterday that it planned to raise its minimum wage over the next two years — just a day before its C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, is set to testify alongside other banking chiefs on Capitol Hill, Emily Flitter of the NYT reports.• Mr. Moynihan said yesterday that Bank of America’s lowest-paid employees would earn $17 an hour starting next month. That will gradually tick up to $20 an hour.• “It was another example of how big banks are trying to deal with shifting political winds in Washington, where they face new scrutiny under the Democrats, who now control the House of Representatives,” Ms. Flitter writes.• Mr. Moynihan and the C.E.O.s of JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and other banks are scheduled to testify before the House Financial Services Committee this morning.• “The banks’ leaders must explain to progressive representatives like Maxine Waters of California and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York why they are paid more than 700 times what low-wage workers, including some tellers in their branches, earn each year.”• They will also be asked about diversity, fair lending and the financial services industry’s ties to gun makers.You can watch the hearing here at 9 a.m. Eastern.Magic Johnson unexpectedly resigned as the L.A. Lakers’ president after the team failed to make the N.B.A. playoffs.UBS reportedly fired James Boland, who had led its leveraged-finance group in the Americas, for not telling his bosses that his team had altered the terms of a leveraged buyout bond.Deals• Saudi Aramco raised $12 billion from its bond sale after receiving huge demand from investors. Its debt is cheaper than the Saudi government’s. (Bloomberg)• Uber reportedly hopes to raise about $10 billion from its I.P.O. (Bloomberg)• Wynn Resorts has ended talks to buy Crown Resorts for $7.1 billion. (FT)• AT&T reportedly discussed selling HBO’s European operations to pay down its $170 billion debt. (FT)• Investors are reportedly buying shares of Slack on private markets at a $14 billion valuation, more than twice the company’s last fund-raising round. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• House Democrats postponed a vote on a budget measure that would increase spending after opposition from both the party’s liberal wing and fiscal hawks. (NYT)• President Trump plans to issue executive orders that would speed up the building of oil and gas pipelines and make it harder for state regulators to interfere. (WaPo)• Lawmakers are pushing a bipartisan bill that would prevent the I.R.S. from offering its own free tax-filing software. (ProPublica)• Attorney General William Barr said that he planned to release a redacted version of the Mueller report “within a week.” (NYT)Boeing• Demand for 737 jets in the first quarter fell 74 percent from the same time last year. (NYT)• Aviation regulators from China and Europe have joined the F.A.A. panel reviewing the safety of the 737 Max 8. (Axios)Trade• The Trump administration said that a plan to impose tariffs on $11 billion worth of E.U. imports was not an attempt to shape a trade deal. (WSJ)• In the past, the E.U. hasn’t worried about China too much as a threat. But at a summit meeting yesterday, that had clearly changed. (NYT)Tech• Microsoft has worked with a Chinese military-run university on A.I. research, some of which could be used for surveillance. (FT)• YouTube had to shut down commenting on the livestream of a House Judiciary Committee hearing on white nationalism after it was overrun by racist comments. (CNBC)• Goldman Sachs is shutting down an in-house email app, in a sign that it’s refocusing how it uses its engineering team. (Business Insider)• Qualcomm is building its own A.I. chips in a bid to compete against Intel and Nvidia. (Reuters)• Malware that was used to disable the safety systems of a petrochemical plant in Saudi Arabia has been used to compromise a second, unnamed industrial facility. (TechCrunch)Best of the rest• Standard Chartered agreed to pay $1.1 billion to settle allegations by the authorities in the U.S. and Britain that it violated money-laundering laws and economic sanctions. (NYT)• PG&E is one of three utilities that failed to protect against cyber and physical attacks, federal regulators said. (WSJ)• Federal officials dismantled a $1.2 billion Medicare fraud scheme that spanned continents and ensnared hundreds of thousands of elderly and disabled patients. (NYT)• JetBlue is expected to begin trans-Atlantic flights. (CNBC)• A former lawyer for SeaWorld Entertainment has pleaded guilty to insider trading. (WSJ)• The Rhine, Germany’s most important shipping route, could again become too shallow for ships to traverse this summer. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. The crisis in Venezuela deepens, the U.S. shutdown continues and a hedge fund billionaire sets a real estate record. Here’s the latest: A day after an opposition leader proclaimed himself the country’s rightful president, the military declared its loyalty to President Nicolás Maduro, deepening the political crisis.Details: The Trump administration recognized the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as the legitimate leader of Venezuela, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called on nations across the Americas to do the same. (Several, including Canada and Denmark, already have).Mr. Maduro, in turn, cut ties with the U.S. and ordered American diplomats to leave Venezuela. But the U.S. said it would not heed the order because Mr. Guaidó had invited them to stay.China, which has invested billions in Venezuela, urged all sides to “resolve their political differences.” Russia warned the U.S. not to intervene in Venezuela’s domestic affairs and Mexico has notably held back on recognizing Mr. Guaidó.Background: Venezuela’s government has overseen the near-total collapse of its economy. Here’s a primer on how the country got to this dire situation.What next? Still unclear. Mr. Guaidó said he intended to serve as interim president until the next election. And the Trump administration said it was ready to send the country $20 million in aid. But with the military standing by Mr. Maduro, an analyst told us, commanders appear to have concluded Mr. Maduro has the upper hand for now.Lawmakers voted against two competing proposals to reopen the government, sending Congressional leaders back to the drawing board for a bipartisan solution to end the impasse.Details: Each party presented its own measure. The Republican proposal included $5.7 billion in funding for President Trump’s border wall, paired with legal protections for some immigrants. The Democratic proposal would have temporarily reopened the government until Feb. 8, but omitted wall funding.What’s next? Lawmakers and aides in both parties expressed hope that the double-barreled losses would break the logjam that has gripped Washington since the partial shutdown began. The urgency is mounting, with 800,000 federal workers set to miss their second paycheck on Friday.House Democrats said they were considering giving Mr. Trump as much as $5.2 billion for border security — but not for a wall.What about the State of the Union? Mr. Trump agreed to delay the landmark speech, originally scheduled for next Tuesday, until after the government reopens.Go deeper: Aviation workers’ unions warned that the shutdown presented an “unconscionable” safety threat for air travel. And nearly six weeks in, the shutdown is eroding the good will of highly skilled federal workers who chose public service over higher-paying private employment.Almost two months after a Chinese researcher, He Jiankui, announced that he had created the first genetically edited babies, scientists are trying to devise international standards that would prevent such experiments in the future.While most researchers agree that major health and science institutions should act quickly, they differ on the best approach.Background: Some U.S. researchers said Dr. He told them beforehand about his experiment — in which he disabled a gene in the embryos that allows a person to become infected by H.I.V. — but they were unable to stop him, in part because China’s system is so complex that the scientists didn’t know who to alert. A global system would ideally eliminate that problem.Why it matters: Scientists fear that genetically edited babies could develop unknown health problems that could be inherited by subsequent generations. They also worry about attempts to alter genes for physical features, intelligence or athletic prowess.What’s next? The World Health Organization is assembling a panel to create global standards and the World Economic Forum also had a discussion on the issue.A growing number of start-ups are selling insights gleaned from small, relatively cheap satellites, known as “cube satellites.”Background: The Chinese province of Guangdong stopped publishing a monthly health report on its manufacturing sector in October, after five consecutive months of declining production amid the trade war with the U.S.But a small company in San Francisco found a way to get that crucial data using photos and infrared images captured by satellites, and now it’s selling it to hedge funds, banks and other investors.Why it matters: Satellites already monitor everything from how busy retailers’ parking lots are, to oil tank levels, to illegal mining activity — giving companies a new competitive advantage.And the niche seems set for further growth: Nearly 730 satellites were launched in the last decade, and another 2,220 are expected to follow in the next ten years.Afghanistan: U.S. and Taliban negotiators are close to striking a deal in which American troops would withdraw in exchange for a pledge from the insurgents that the country wouldn’t become a terrorist base again, officials said. Though many details remain unclear, Western diplomats said they expected an announcement imminently.China: The Foreign Ministry said Yang Hengjun, the Australian writer detained this week, was suspected of “endangering national security” — making him the third foreigner held on that sweeping charge. Australian Embassy officials in Beijing have been pushing for access to him.Censorship: China appears to have blocked Microsoft’s search engine, Bing, despite the company’s efforts to comply with the country’s restrictions — a potential sign that Western companies can do little to persuade Beijing to let them into the world’s largest internet market.Renault: The French carmaker announced new leadership a day after Carlos Ghosn resigned as chairman and chief executive from his Tokyo jail cell. Jean-Dominique Senard, the new chairman, and Thierry Bolloré, the new C.E.O., are tasked with mending Renault’s alliance with Nissan. Here’s what’s at stake.Indonesia: A Christian politician from the capital city of Jakarta was released from prison after serving two years for blasphemy against Islam, a case that led to vast protests against the former governor and highlighted the rise of political Islam in the country.Malaysia: The ousted former Prime Minister Najib Razak, who now faces dozens of corruption-related charges, pleaded his case to the public in a music video. He posted his Malay-language rendition of the R&B hit “Kiss and Say Goodbye,” with new lyrics, on Facebook.North Korea: Kim Jong-un praised President Trump for his “unusual determination” to settle the countries’ nuclear arms dispute through a second summit meeting, according to local news media, and said he would work “step by step” with the U.S.Ukraine: Former president Viktor Yanukovych was found guilty of treason for inviting Russia to invade the country and reverse a pro-Western revolution five years ago, the first ruling to formally determine he served Russian interests. He was sentenced to 13 years in prison.$238 million: That’s what a hedge fund billionaire paid for an apartment in New York City — the highest price ever paid for a home in the U.S.Overlooked no more: Mabel Stark became the world’s most celebrated tiger trainer, spending most of her life among the big cats at circuses and theme parks. She died in 1968 and never received a Times obituary, until now.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Molasses gives ginger cookies a decidedly adult, almost caramel flavor.Tidy up your digital life with these tips to organize your personal tech.Become less angry by learning to slow down.Robert Burns, the Scottish poet, was born on this day in 1759. He wrote hundreds of poems and songs before his life was cut short by illness, including the New Year’s Eve favorite “Auld Lang Syne.” His use of vernacular is a barrier for English speakers, but it is difficult to overstate the esteem he commands in Scotland and in the hearts of expatriates like this writer, who grew up in Burns’s home of Ayrshire. His verses gave dignity and voice to the disenfranchised, and he is beloved for his romanticism and sense of humor. Scots around the world celebrate his birth with “Burns suppers.”The most elaborate celebrations feature pipers marching in with a haggis (a traditional concoction of minced offal, oatmeal and spices) to a standing ovation. The host recites Burns’s praise-filled “Address to a Haggis.” Eating and toasts from the “laddies” and “lassies” follow.So tonight, whatever is on your plate, join me in a toast to Scotland’s best-loved son. Jeanie Kay, a designer on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A new research paper tracked the political donations of thousands of C.E.O.s from 2000 through 2017. The results, Andrew writes in his latest column, reveal what top business leaders really think about politics.They’re usually Republican. Nearly 58 percent of C.E.O.s showed a preference for the G.O.P., with just 18 percent designated as Democrats. (For executives to be counted as either, two thirds of their donations had to go to candidates affiliated with one party.)About a quarter were considered neutral. The report doesn’t disclose who was in each category, but its authors told Andrew that Tim Cook of Apple was neutral, having donated to both Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan over the years.The disparity was narrower in some sectors. Tech and internet companies had somewhat more Democratic-leaning C.E.O.s. And female leaders were nearly evenly split between the G.O.P., Democrats and neutral territory.But the Republicans are quieter. The study found that there was a statistically significant association between a company having a Republican C.E.O. and less disclosure of political contributions.Why it matters: “The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today,” Andrew writes. “Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.”The U.S. and China will embark on another round of high-level trade talks in a final attempt to hash out an agreement, according to the WSJ.• “U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plan to fly to Beijing next week to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, Trump administration officials said.”• “The following week, a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Liu is expected to continue talks in Washington.”There are conflicting views on how far they’ve got: America seems upbeat. President Trump yesterday said that talks were “going very well,” and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that “we’re in the endgame.” But China may be wary. “Some U.S. negotiators are concerned that China is pushing back against American demands in trade talks,” Bloomberg reports, citing unnamed sources. It may walk back some promises because they didn’t prompt assurances about American concessions.A deal could be ready by the end of April if the next talks go well, the WSJ estimates, about a month later than previously expected.Meanwhile, in Europe:  President Xi Jinping’s trip to Italy and France this week is drawing attention to Europe’s conflicted views on China.After years of criticism, Facebook said it would no longer permit advertisers in key categories to show their messages only to people of a certain race, gender or age group, Noam Scheiber and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.• Anyone advertising housing, jobs or credit would no longer have the option of explicitly aiming ads on the basis of those characteristics.• The new rules also cover advertising on Instagram and Messenger, which Facebook owns.• Facebook said it planned to carry out the changes by the end of the year.• The changes are part of a settlement with groups that have sued Facebook over these practices in recent years.The shift will annoy advertisers. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s C.O.O., told the NYT that the changes could make advertising on Facebook less efficient for some customers, but that it was “a cost well worth bearing.”And it has limits. “I don’t think it solves the problem of the potential for biased serving of ads,” Pauline Kim, a professor of employment law at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT. She explained that Facebook’s algorithms could show any ad to a particular audience if that audience were determined to be likelier to click on it.More Facebook news: Representative David Cicilline, the head of the House antitrust subcommittee, explains why he is calling on the F.T.C. to investigate the company. And are we asking it the wrong questions in the wake of the Christchurch shooting?In the wake of two fatal crashes involving Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane, a new focus for investigations is how the F.A.A. certified the jet as safe, David Gelles and Tom Kaplan of the NYT report.• “The 737 Max was one of the first commercial jets approved under new rules, which delegated more authority to Boeing than had been the case when most previous planes were certified.”• “Top F.A.A. officials, who are briefed on significant safety issues, were not aware” of an automated piloting system suspected in the crashes, Mr. Gelles and Mr. Kaplan report, citing unnamed sources.• “The software did not elicit what are known as special conditions, usually applied to a novel feature that requires additional regulations before it can be certified as safe.” But other features, like non-rechargeable lithium batteries, received that designation.• Skepticism about the F.A.A.’s approval process existed before the crashes. “In 2012, an investigation by the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that F.A.A. managers had not always been supportive of efforts by agency employees to ‘hold Boeing accountable.’ ”• “The United States transportation secretary, Elaine L. Chao, on Tuesday called for her agency’s internal watchdog to open an inquiry into the process.”More aviation news: President Trump nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to lead the F.A.A. And an off-duty pilot reportedly helped save a Lion Air 737 Max 8 flight in software-driven trouble just one day before the same jet crashed.The tech giant introduced a service yesterday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet. It’s hoping to lead a revolution in the $135 billion industry.Think of it as Netflix for video games. “The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet,” Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian Chen of the NYT write. “Users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.”This isn’t the only game-streaming option. Sony offers one called PlayStation Now, and Microsoft plans to test something similar this year. The idea hasn’t yet hit the mainstream because streaming games is more technically demanding than streaming movies — and therefore prone to glitches.Plenty of unanswered questions hang over the announcement. What games will be available? How much will the service cost? And more fundamentally, what is Google’s business model? None of that is clear.But Google has not-so-secret weapons. “Using the global network of data centers that run its internet empire, it is set to unleash enough raw computing power to blow away the industry’s current way of doing things,” the FT writes, and it has “YouTube as a shop window.” Shares in Sony and Nintendo tumbled after the announcement.More Google news: In Europe, the company is changing how it displays some search results, and is giving Android users a choice of web browser to stave off complaints — and potential fines — from antitrust regulators.Just after midnight Eastern Time, Walt Disney closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox. It has become, Brooks Barnes of the NYT writes, “an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.”Disney now owns an enviable array of assets. It already runs blockbuster properties like Marvel, Lucasfilm and ESPN, and a huge global theme-park operation. But buying most of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire brings:• The 20th Century Fox movie and TV studios, home to “X-Men” and “The Simpsons”• The Nat Geo and FX cable channels• Most of the Hulu streaming service• Star, the fast-growing Indian video providerThe consequences could be huge. Smaller studios may have to merge. Theater owners could lose out on box-office splits. And Disney’s efforts to dominate streaming could pose big challenges to Netflix, Amazon and Apple.But the stakes are high. “Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked,” Mr. Barnes writes. And melding two corporate cultures isn’t easy.Anheuser-Busch InBev named Marty Barrington, the former C.E.O. of Altria, as its new chairman. Alex Behring, the head of the investment firm 3G Capital, stepped down from the board.Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, has joined the board of Fox.WarnerMedia named Toby Emmerich, Peter Roth and Kimberly Williams as interim co-heads of Warner Bros. while it seeks a replacement for Kevin Tsujihara.Kickstarter’s co-founder Perry Chen is stepping down as C.E.O.Barclays has hired Bob Peck, who was global head of internet investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a chairman of global internet banking.Deals• Lyft’s I.P.O. is reportedly oversubscribed, just two days after it started pitching to prospective investors. (Reuters)• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany plans to stay out of merger talks between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (NYT)• Apax and Warburg Pincus are leading a $3.3 billion takeover bid for Inmarsat, the satellite operator. (FT)• Glossier, the online cosmetics company, raised $100 million from investors led by Sequoia at a $1.2 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders are expected to back the company in its fight against Elliott Management, which aims to shake up the carmaker’s board. (Nikkei)Politics and policy• Joe Biden reportedly told supporters that he plans to run for the Democratic presidential nomination. (WSJ)• Robert Mueller began investigating Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, within months of starting as special counsel. (NYT)• How billions of dollars from military projects across the country could be used for President Trump’s border wall. (Axios)• The Trump administration has lost at least 63 court battles in the last two years, often for failing to provide clear explanations and allow public comment on decisions. (WaPo)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will seek a short delay — reportedly up to three months — to Brexit. (FT)• The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that European leaders may decide whether to grant a delay next week. The current Brexit deadline is next Friday. (Guardian)• Financial services companies may move an estimated £1 trillion, or $1.32 trillion, in financial assets out of Britain because of Brexit, according to the consulting firm EY. (FT)Tech• Apple is working with three nonprofits to develop anti-disinformation programs. (Axios)• Instagram introduced a feature that lets users buy clothes within its app. (NYT)• Myspace, the once-popular social network, says it may have permanently lost millions of photos, videos, and audio files from its peak period. (NYT)• An argument against breaking up Big Tech: Innovation could stagnate. (FT op-ed)• Airbnb hasn’t raised money in two years, so valuing it for an I.P.O. is tricky. (Recode)Best of the rest• Chinese companies are defaulting at “unprecedented” levels. (CNBC)• Economists around the world are trying to find an alternative to G.D.P. as a measure of prosperity. Here’s how that’s going. (Axios)• The S.E.C. plans to examine whether consolidation is reducing competition among U.S. asset managers. (FT)• The center fielder Mike Trout is reportedly near a $430 million deal with the L.A. Angels, which would be the biggest contract in North American sports history.. (ESPN)• Bill Gates has joined Jeff Bezos in the club of centibillionaires. They’re the only members. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)In the wake of two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane that shared similarities, Boeing finds itself with prosecutors and regulators inspecting its development processes and safety assessments.• A grand jury in Washington, D.C., issued a subpoena dated March 11 — the day after the Ethiopian Airlines crash — seeking documents from at least one person involved in the development of the 737 Max jets, the WSJ reports.• The Transportation Department inspector general’s office was also reportedly examining the plane’s design certification before the second deadly crash.• An investigation by The Seattle Times found that the F.A.A. delegated wide responsibility for the 737 Max safety assessment to Boeing itself. The resulting analysis included “crucial flaws,” according to the investigation.• And Bloomberg reports that as early as seven years ago, F.A.A. employees warned that Boeing “had too much sway over safety approvals of new aircraft.”Boeing said in a statement on Sunday that “aircraft certification processes are well established and have consistently produced safe aircraft designs.” It added that the “737 Max certification program followed the F.A.A.’s standard certification process.”The ride-hailing company will start the road show for its I.P.O. today in New York City. It won’t be short on ambition: Lyft hopes to achieve a valuation of as much as $23 billion.In its updated prospectus, Lyft said that it hopes to raise nearly $2.4 billion from its I.P.O. That figure is close to the $2.16 billion in revenue that it generated last year.At the high end of its proposed stock price, $68, the company would be valued at $23 billion. That would make the stakes held by each of the company’s founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, worth hundreds of millions of dollars apiece. The company is expected to price its offering on March 28, and would then trade on the Nasdaq the next day.Lyft is poised to become one of the biggest market debuts by a tech company since the Alibaba Group’s I.P.O. in 2014. (Until Uber goes public later this year, at least.)But the I.P.O. is not without controversy. It’s facing backlash from investors who aren’t happy about a dual-class stock structure. Paul Singer, the head of the activist hedge fund Elliott Management, is one of them, writing in an FT op-ed:“Those with the insight and daring to found a business deserve our respect. But once they sell the vast majority of the company to the public, they should not be allowed to run it forever without any shareholder input. Public ownership must mean public accountability.”The two German lenders announced yesterday that they will formally begin merger talks. Now they must convince critics that combining is a good thing.Deutsche Bank said it was reviewing “strategic options” for shoring up its profitability and growth. Christian Sewing, the firm’s C.E.O., told employees, “I have consistently stressed that consolidation in the German and European banking sector is an important topic for us.”The combined bank would be one of Europe’s biggest, with $2 trillion in assets and about one-fifth of all private customers in Germany.Going public signals that the deal has political backing. Germany’s finance minister has argued that the country needs a strong national champion to compete against foreign banks. (Here is the FT’s list of the key decision-makers for any deal.)But opposition to a merger is strong. German unions have criticized the plan, fearing tens of thousands of job cuts. And Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg Opinion warns that it wouldn’t fix the bigger problems in the German banking system.The Trump administration’s campaign to prevent countries from using Huawei equipment in their 5G wireless networks has faltered, Julian E. Barnes and Adam Satariano of the NYT write.American officials have been pressuring and threatening other nations to shun Huawei. The push is rooted in U.S. concerns that Chinese telecom companies are a significant security threat, and could help Beijing spy on other nations.But it’s not really working. Britain, Germany, India and the United Arab Emirates have all signaled that they are unlikely to follow America’s lead.The U.S. campaign has been criticized for a lack of evidence. American intelligence briefings have reportedly failed to clearly show how the Chinese government has used Huawei to steal information. (Read what five experts and two senators have to say about whether it is a threat.) Some European and Asian officials also believe that President Trump may not fully support the fight.American officials want to find other ways to curb Huawei’s rise, Mr. Barnes and Mr. Satariano write, “including possibly restricting American companies from supplying Huawei with key components that it needs to build 5G networks across the world.”More: Huawei has built its own operating system for smartphones and computers, to be used if the company can no longer use software developed by Google and Microsoft.The financial sector hasn’t felt the impact of #MeToo as much as other industries. But as David Gelles of the NYT reports, a lawsuit against the asset manager TCW could change that.• Sara Tirschwell, who created a distressed-debt fund at TCW but was fired in 2017, has sued the firm; her former boss, Jess Ravich; and the C.E.O., David Lippman. She claimed that her dismissal was retaliation against her for reporting a sexual harassment claim against Mr. Ravich, gender discrimination and a breach of contract.• Ms. Tirschwell alleges that Mr. Ravich pressured her into sex several times during her tenure with the firm. The first encounter made her feel, according to her lawsuit, “as if rejection would mean the end of Ravich’s crucial support.”• TCW, Mr. Ravich and Mr. Lippman denied the allegations. “I was Sara’s biggest supporter at TCW and had no role in the decision to fire her,” Mr. Ravich said.• So far, there’s been no talk of a settlement. Mr. Gelles writes, “Days in court have been rare for the movement — and rarer still for Wall Street, where grievances are typically dealt with in private, and by wire transfer, when they are dealt with at all.”Despite delivering disappointing returns to investors, many C.E.O.s saw their compensation climb last year, according to the WSJ.• “Median compensation for 132 chief executives of S&P 500 companies reached $12.4 million in 2018, up from $11.7 million for the same group in 2017,” the WSJ calculates.• “Most of these C.E.O.s received substantial raises — the median was 6.4 percent — even though the December stock-market swoon meant most of the companies finished out the year posting sluggish shareholder returns.”• “Markets did pretty well, companies did well, and the economy held up,” Robin Ferracone, an executive-pay consultant, told the WSJ.• But she also said that boards may have been thinking forward to an economic slowdown, adding, “They know they’re going to have to bring it down when the bloom’s off the rose.”The shooting at a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, was designed to go viral on the internet. What can we do about it?“The attack was teased on Twitter, announced on the online message board 8chan and broadcast live on Facebook,” Kevin Roose of the NYT writes. “The footage was then replayed endlessly on YouTube, Twitter and Reddit, as the platforms scrambled to take down the clips nearly as fast as new copies popped up to replace them.”“Online extremism is just regular extremism on steroids. There is no offline equivalent of the experience of being algorithmically nudged toward a more strident version of your existing beliefs,” Mr. Roose adds. “People become fluent in the culture of online extremism, they make and consume edgy memes, they cluster and harden. And once in a while, one of them erupts.”But telling terrorists from trolls isn’t easy for tech companies, Christopher Mims of the WSJ argues. Knowing which online extremists will erupt with an act of violence can be virtually impossible, and their broadcasts of sudden acts of violence can be hard to automatically block.More needs to be done. “We need to understand and address the poisonous pipeline of extremism that has emerged over the past several years, whose ultimate effects are impossible to quantify but clearly far too big to ignore,” Mr. Roose writes. “It’s not going away, and it’s not particularly getting better.”PG&E is reportedly close to naming Bill Johnson, the outgoing head of the Tennessee Valley Authority, as its next C.E.O.Google named Scott Beaumont, the head of its greater China and Korea operations, as the chief of its Asia-Pacific team.Stuart Benson resigned as the C.F.O. of MoviePass.Princeville Capital, a venture capital firm that invests in climate technology, has recruited Leonardo DiCaprio as an adviser.Deals• Fidelity National Information Services agreed to buy an international payments processor, Worldpay, for $34 billion. (The companies)• Caesars Entertainment and Eldorado Resorts are reportedly in early merger talks. (Reuters)• Private equity firms like KKR and CVC Capital Partners are reportedly interested in buying Bayer’s animal-health division. (Bloomberg)• PagerDuty, a popular start-up that alerts I.T. workers to tech problems that need fixing, publicly filed for an I.P.O. (Business Insider)Politics and policy• Investors eagerly await the Treasury Department’s rules for investing in tax-advantaged opportunity zones. (NYT)• Fox News suspended Jeanine Pirro over a monologue questioning a Muslim lawmaker’s loyalty to the U.S. — and President Trump was unhappy about the move. (NYT)• Cindy Yang, the former owner of a massage parlor busted in a prostitution ring, has come under scrutiny for political activities, including donations to the president’s re-election campaign. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May is expected to put her Brexit deal up for a third parliamentary vote this week, but that is likely contingent on gaining the backing of the Democratic Unionist Party. (FT)• Meanwhile, the Labour Party appears set to support a plan that would seek a public vote on Mrs. May’s deal if it is approved by lawmakers. (Reuters)Trade• The U.S. and China are pushing for a meeting in late April to complete a trade deal, but negotiators are still grappling over the details. (NYT)• The Russian metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska has sued the U.S. Treasury Department over sanctions placed on him last year. (CNBC)• President Xi Jinping of China starts a series of state visits to Europe this week in a bid to bolster trade with the continent. (Bloomberg)Tech• Marc Andreessen, a Facebook board member, reportedly met with the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Chris Wylie in 2016. If true, it would suggest he understood the extent of the company’s harvesting of Facebook data. He denies the claim. (Observer, Business Insider)• In related news, the academic behind Cambridge Analytica’s data mining has sued Facebook for defamation. (NYT)• Apple is making a billion-dollar bet to take on Netflix. Will it work? (NYT)• Tech investors are now including #MeToo clauses in their start-up deals. (FT)• Breaking up tech giants has suddenly become a populist concept — but not in San Francisco. (NYT, Bloomberg)Best of the rest• In the wake of the admissions scandal, colleges are rethinking athletic special admissions. (WSJ)• The Fed is likely to say later this week that it has little appetite for more interest rate rises this year. (WSJ)• Why do successful joint ventures turn sour? It’s often because the success breeds a desire for control that the venture sought to avoid. (Economist)• The European Central Bank is unhappy about the E.U.’s plans for increasing supervision of clearing houses. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Uber published the prospectus yesterday for its long-awaited I.P.O., revealing the full scale of its ride-hailing empire — and potential warning signs for what is expected to be the biggest market debut in years.The main revelations:• $1.8 billion in losses last year, excluding gains from selling parts of its businesses in Southeast Asia and Russia.• $11.3 billion in overall revenue.• 91 million monthly users, including services like food delivery and shared scooter and bike rentals.• Its biggest shareholders include SoftBank of Japan and its co-founder and former C.E.O., Travis Kalanick.Growth is slowing. In 2018, revenue rose 42 percent from a year earlier. It had doubled the year before. And revenue from ride-hailing, its biggest business,  was roughly flat for the last six months of 2018. Growth in monthly users also appears to be slowing.That could be a concern for investors who had hoped Uber would maintain a meteoric growth rate. A potential $100 billion valuation may be lower than expectations, but Lex points out that it’s still a rich number.More: How Uber stacks up against Lyft. What Uber’s metrics like “core platform contribution margin” actually mean. And Uber executives stand to make huge bonuses from a big I.P.O. — its drivers, not so much.Chevron said this morning that it planned to acquire Anadarko, the oil and gas producer, in what would be one of the biggest deals in the industry in years.• Under the terms of the deal, Chevron would pay $65 a share in stock and cash. That is 39 percent above where Anadarko’s stock closed yesterday.• Including Anadarko’s debt, the transaction is valued at $50 billion.• Anadarko would give Chevron a huge presence in the Permian Basin in West Texas, one of the most valuable oil-producing areas in the U.S. It would also strengthen Chevron’s liquid natural gas reserves.If completed, the deal would be Chevron’s biggest since its $36 billion takeover of Texaco, which closed in 2001.The deal comes as oil prices have risen over the past six weeks after a reduction in supply by OPEC members. Futures for West Texas Intermediate crude reached $64.19 per barrel this morning, up 61 cents from their last closing price, according to Reuters.In Amazon’s annual letter to its shareholders, Jeff Bezos shared insights about the financial performance of his e-commerce behemoth.“Third-party sellers are kicking our first-party butt. Badly,” Mr. Bezos wrote. Third-party sales on Amazon increased to $160 billion in 2018 from $100 million in 1999 — a compound annual growth rate of 52 percent. Amazon’s first-party sales rose to $117 billion from $1.6 billion in the same period, a growth rate of 25 percent.Growth in Amazon’s total merchandise sales is slowing, according to calculations by Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion. She writes that the company sold $300 billion worth of merchandise in 2018, up 19 percent from the previous year. But annual increases for that metric were 24 percent for 2017 and 27 percent for 2016.“It’s unfair to expect Amazon to grow like a start-up forever. But it’s not insignificant that this slowdown has come even as Amazon has attempted to flex more muscle in newer categories,” Ms. Ovide writes. “It doesn’t seem like a coincidence that this comes as its legacy retail competitors finally seem to have awakened and adapted to the e-commerce era.”More: Mr. Bezos also dared retail rivals to raise their minimum wages. A Walmart executive shot back by asking Amazon to pay taxes.Four Republican senators said that they would not back Mr. Cain should President Trump nominate him as a Fed governor. That’s probably enough opposition to stop him from joining the central bank.“If I had to vote today, I would vote no,” Senator Kevin Cramer of North Dakota said yesterday, joining Mitt Romney of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Cory Gardner of Colorado in opposing Mr. Cain. They appear to have concerns about his qualifications and partisanship.Because Republicans hold only 53 Senate seats, a confirmation would require support from Democrats. That seems unlikely, given Mr. Cain’s frequent attacks on opposition lawmakers.It’s unclear whether Mr. Trump’s other pick for the Fed, the economics commentator Stephen Moore, will fare better. Mr. Moore has been embarrassed by revelations of tax problems, but Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports that he may win wider support from Senate Republicans.Mr. Trump’s efforts to politicize the Fed continue to outrage commentators. The Economist is worried that “the Fed will become a political weapon, and that America will move closer to becoming a nation where the welfare of the ruling party trumps that of the country as a whole.”As part of trade negotiations with America, China has offered new concessions on access in the cloud-computing sector for U.S. tech companies, the WSJ reports.• China is “proposing to issue more licenses that businesses need to operate data centers and to lift the 50 percent equity cap that limits ownership for certain foreign cloud-service providers,” according to unidentified sources.• “Amazon, Microsoft, Apple and others have invested millions of dollars or more to provide cloud services in China, but are hampered by regulations. Better access would potentially allow them to enlarge their presence.”• “Questions still remain over the details of the latest Chinese proposal, the people said, such as how quickly the equity caps would be removed, and whether the removal would be confined to certain geographical areas, such as a free-trade zone.”Both Washington and Beijing are offering a final round of concessions, hoping they will lead to an agreement. President Trump said last week that he expected to reach a deal within the next four weeks.The owner of The National Enquirer may have found a potential buyer: Ron Burkle, the supermarket mogul, the NYT reports.Mr. Burkle is known for buying distressed companies, having made his fortune through buying and merging supermarket chains like Ralphs and Jurgensen’s. He’s also known for hobnobbing with celebrities like Leonardo DiCaprio and Madonna.He’s also a big donor to the Democratic Party, and was close to President Bill Clinton. That would make his owning The Enquirer, the tabloid favored by Mr. Trump, unusual. (He is also friends with Mr. Trump.)But leaks of the Enquirer talks may scuttle a deal. After the NYT reported on the discussions, a spokesman for Mr. Burkle’s private equity firm said that the investor wasn’t in talks to buy the publication. The NYT reports that Mr. Burkle’s team felt “used” by American Media Inc., the tabloid’s current owner.The WikiLeaks founder was arrested yesterday in London to face a charge in the U.S. of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010, the NYT reports.• “The Ecuadorean government suspended the citizenship it had granted Mr. Assange and evicted him on Thursday, clearing the way for his arrest.”• “At a court hearing, a judge swiftly found him guilty of jumping bail, and he was detained partly in connection with an American extradition warrant.”• “Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated.”The events brought to a head issues about press freedom. Mr. Assange’s work with WikiLeaks — obtaining and publishing information that officials would prefer be kept secret — are hard to legally distinguish from journalism. Some fear that journalists could be treated in a similar way.Mr. Assange was indicted on a charge of hacking, not publishing secrets. But people who are worried about press freedom shouldn’t necessarily rest easy, Charlie Savage of the NYT writes.More: President Trump once claimed to “love WikiLeaks.” Yesterday, he said: “I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It’s not my thing.”The dust has settled on the agreement to delay Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. for at least six months. But reactions to the situation have been mixed.Business are unhappy. For many larger companies, Brexit has already happened. But “businesses of all sizes are still pleading for Parliament to give them clarity before the economy slows,” Amie Tsang of the NYT writes.Economists are pleased. The I.M.F.’s managing director, Christine Lagarde, said that the new Brexit date meant that Britain would avoid — for now — the “terrible outcome” of a no-deal departure. The Bank of England governor, Mark Carney, said the delay would make a no-deal exit less disruptive.And Prime Minister Theresa May is pushing on. She has “renewed her effort to push through her Brexit deal with the aid of the opposition Labour Party, in a desperate bid to avoid holding European parliamentary elections in a month’s time,” according to the FT.Bob Iger said yesterday that he would retire as Walt Disney’s C.E.O. in 2021.Jamie Forese, the head of Citigroup’s investment bank and a potential successor to Mike Corbat as C.E.O., is stepping down.Google’s chief diversity officer, Danielle Brown, is leaving to become the human resources chief at Gusto.Maryanne Trump Barry, a federal appellate judge in Philadelphia and the sister of President Trump, has retired amid a civil misconduct investigation.Blackstone has appointed Kelly Ayotte, a former Republican senator for New Hampshire, to its board.Deals• J. Crew may spin off its popular Madewell brand to raise much-needed capital. (NYT)• Jay Alix, the corporate restructuring veteran, is leading a fight against what he says is McKinsey & Company’s control of the U.S. bankruptcy system. (NYT)• A bidder for Disney’s sports networks has accused Charter Communications of trying to subvert the auction process. (WSJ)• Goldman Sachs is trying to revive its once-dominant trading division by offering clients technology and new services like cash management. (FT)Politics and policy• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a 7 percent tax on corporate profits above $100 million, which would raise an estimated $1 trillion over the next decade. (Bloomberg)• The Senate confirmed David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist, as the interior department secretary, despite Democratic lawmakers’ concerns. (NYT)• A third of economists think even a small increase in the federal minimum wage would lead to job losses, according to a survey. (WSJ)• A grand jury indicted Gregory Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, over his work for Ukraine. (NYT)Boeing• Families planning to sue Boeing in the U.S. over fatal crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia must first prove their lawsuits belong in America. (WSJ)• The C.E.O., Dennis Muilenberg, said that fixes planned for the 737 Max jets would make them “even safer.” (WSJ)• Before the Ethiopian Airlines crash, Boeing had said that the 737 Max 8 was “not suitable” for some airports. (Bloomberg)Tech• Disney introduced its streaming service, Disney Plus. Featuring original content from Marvel and all 30 seasons of “The Simpsons,” it will cost $7 a month, undercutting Netflix. (NYT)• SpaceX launched the Falcon Heavy — the most powerful rocket in operation — for the second time. It also successfully landed all three of its boosters for the first time. Related: What’s next for the space race. (NYT, WSJ)• Tesla reshuffled the vehicle lineup on its online ordering system, making it harder to buy its cheapest vehicle. Also: Tesla and Panasonic have tempered expansion plans for their huge battery factory. (Bloomberg)• What’s Big Tech’s relationship with the climate? It’s complicated. (Axios)Best of the rest• Economists said that they see the Fed holding rates steady at least through 2021, according to a survey. (WSJ)• The new World Bank president, David Malpass, says there is too much debt in the world. (CNBC)• A defense lawyer for Carlos Ghosn says that detention is worsening his kidney condition. (WSJ)• Sales reps for Purdue Pharma visited New York State doctors a half-million times between 2006 and 2017 to promote OxyContin, according to newly filed court documents. (NYT)• Michael Avenatti, already facing fraud and extortion charges, has also been accused of stealing from clients and of lying repeatedly about his income. (NYT)• “Game of Thrones” returns on Sunday. Here’s how it changed television. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.) Capitalism helped Ray Dalio build his investment empire. But in a lengthy LinkedIn post, the Bridgewater Associates founder says that it isn’t working anymore.• Mr. Dalio writes that he has seen capitalism “evolve in a way that it is not working well for the majority of Americans because it’s producing self-reinforcing spirals up for the haves and down for the have-nots.”• “Disparity in wealth, especially when accompanied by disparity in values, leads to increasing conflict and, in the government, that manifests itself in the form of populism of the left and populism of the right and often in revolutions of one sort or another.”• “The problem is that capitalists typically don’t know how to divide the pie well and socialists typically don’t know how to grow it well.”• “We are now seeing conflicts between populists of the left and populists of the right increasing around the world in much the same way as they did in the 1930s when the income and wealth gaps were comparably large.”• “It doesn’t take a genius to know that when a system is producing outcomes that are so inconsistent with its goals, it needs to be reformed.”Stay tuned: Mr. Dalio says that he’ll offer his solutions in another essay.A federal judge gave Elon Musk and the S.E.C. two weeks to resolve a dispute about whether Mr. Musk violated a settlement he reached with the commission, Matthew Goldstein of the NYT reports.Mr. Musk’s tweeting is at the heart of the skirmish. The S.E.C. says that a tweet about Tesla production numbers violated the settlement, in which he promised to get approval from a Tesla lawyer before publishing any Twitter posts that include potentially market-sensitive information.His lawyers insist that the tweet didn’t contain material information. One of them said yesterday that the S.E.C.’s policy on what needs to be vetted was “murky.” Judge Alison Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan wondered if there was a “lack of clarity” and whether the settlement should be modified or struck down.“Take a deep breath,” Judge Nathan told both sides. She added that they should put on “their reasonableness pants” to find common ground.This is “something of a victory for Mr. Musk, who could have been fined if he was found to be in contempt,” Mr. Goldstein writes. But Judge Nathan told Mr. Musk that, regardless of how powerful a person he is, a “court order is not optional.”More: Tesla shares fell after it reported delivering fewer vehicles than expected in the first quarter. And the automaker’s electric vehicle competition appears to be catching up.Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos said yesterday that they had finalized their divorce — and she will keep a big chunk of the Amazon empire.Mr. Bezos will keep 75 percent of the couple’s Amazon stock — which means he will hold about 12 percent of the company’s shares — as well as their family’s ownership interests in the WaPo and the Blue Origin space exploration company. That’s enough to keep his title as the world’s richest man.More important for him, he’ll keep voting control of Ms. Bezos’s shares. Even if she sells them, the recipient has to agree to hand over voting rights to Mr. Bezos.Ms. Bezos could have been entitled to half of the couple’s holdings under Washington State law, according to legal experts. It’s not clear what other compensation she is receiving from the split.But her holdings are valued at about $36 billion, making her one of the wealthiest women in the world. In her first-ever tweet, Ms. Bezos wrote, “Excited about my own plans. Grateful for the past as I look forward to what comes next.”Initial findings from an investigation into the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month suggest that Boeing didn’t give pilots enough guidance on new anti-stall software in the 737 Max 8.The Ethiopian Airlines pilots followed Boeing’s instructions when the anti-stall system kicked in, the report suggests. They then shut down the software and tried to retake control — but failed to do so. Four minutes later, the plane crashed.The system appeared to have forced the plane’s nose down several times in less than three minutes. It “left the pilot with no ability to gain control of the aircraft if it went to the full limit,” Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for American Airlines’s pilots union, told the NYT. “It’s our responsibility to eliminate this risk,” Dennis Muilenburg, Boeing’s C.E.O., said yesterday. “We own it, and we know how to do it.” Boeing has found a second software flaw in the 737 Max 8, separate from the anti-stall feature. The FT reports that this was the reason for a delay in rolling out software fixes for the plane.President Trump reportedly hoped to announce a final trade agreement between the U.S. and China yesterday. But he stopped short of that, Anna Swanson of the NYT reports, instead saying that it may take at least four more weeks to secure an “epic” trade deal.• “The United States and China continue to haggle over some remaining issues, including how many of the American tariffs on Chinese goods will be removed, and when.”• “In remarks at the White House, Mr. Trump said that the deal was ‘very complete’ and that the two sides had ‘agreed to far more than we have left to agree to.’ ”• “I think I can say some of the toughest things have been agreed to,” Mr. Trump added.Yet no matter what, Mr. Trump can already claim a trade victory. “Spurred by tariffs and trade tensions, global companies are beginning to shift their supply chains away from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted,” Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.Herman Cain, the former C.E.O. of the Godfather’s Pizza chain and a presidential hopeful in 2012, may soon become President Trump’s next pick as a Fed governor.Mr. Cain is perhaps best remembered for his 2012 run for president, when he proposed an unorthodox “9-9-9” economic plan: a flat 9 percent tax rate, 9 percent business tax and 9 percent national sales tax.But Mr. Trump wants him on the Fed, calling him “a truly outstanding individual.” His nomination is dependent on the White House vetting process.Mr. Trump’s pick comes as the president has soured on the Fed. The president has told associates that selecting Jay Powell as the Fed’s chairman was a mistake, because of his insistence on raising interest rates.But the president’s Fed choices are drawing brickbats. Like Stephen Moore, the economics commentator whom Mr. Trump has already nominated for a place on the Fed board, Mr. Cain doesn’t have what critics say are the requisite qualifications.Critics worry that Mr. Trump is politicizing the Fed, which is meant to be apolitical. The possible nominations of Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain have “the potential to undermine the credibility of monetary policy,” Sarah Bloom Raskin, a Fed governor under President Barack Obama, told the NYT.JPMorgan Chase released its annual report to investors yesterday, and it included a long letter from Jamie Dimon about the bank’s role in shaping America.The biggest problems facing the U.S., according to Mr. Dimon, include education, immigration, health care costs, cyberattacks and “excessive regulation.”Capitalism is under pressure, but it’s better than socialism, he argues. “Socialism inevitably produces stagnation, corruption and often worse,” Mr. Dimon writes. But the JPMorgan chief also distinguishes social democrats, which some Democrats identify as, from true socialists.C.E.O.s and companies should be more active in public life, Mr. Dimon writes, “particularly when they or their companies can uniquely help design policies that are good for America.”To respond, JPMorgan plans to strengthen its public policy teams “to take our advocacy and ideas to the next level,” he writes.More: Jamie Dimon reportedly spent much of last year considering a run for president — but decided there was no way a Wall Street C.E.O. could win.Rudy Giuliani, who was President Trump’s personal lawyer during the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the U.S. election, is a very busy man, according to Stephanie Baker of Bloomberg Businessweek.• Mr. Giuliani runs “a globe-trotting consulting business,” Ms. Baker writes. “In the past two years he’s given speeches and done consulting and legal work in Armenia, Bahrain, Brazil, Colombia, Turkey, and Uruguay, among other countries,” as well as significant work in Ukraine.• But “the question of conflict arises, in part, because Giuliani keeps popping up in world capitals to make pronouncements that dovetail with Trump’s foreign policy positions.”• Mr. Giuliani says he tells clients that he doesn’t lobby the U.S. government. “ ‘There’s no conflict. What’s the conflict?’ he said. ‘I don’t ask the president for anything for them ever.’ He later added, ‘I don’t peddle influence. I don’t have to. I make a good deal of money as a lawyer and as a security consultant.’ ”• “Whatever he does next, whether it’s continuing as Trump’s personal lawyer or going back to full-time consulting, Giuliani is confident the business will continue to flow. ‘I got clients before I represented President Trump, and I’m gonna get clients afterwards,’ he said. ‘After I stop representing him, I’ll be doing more work overseas, because I’ll have more time.’ ”The World Bank’s board is reportedly expected to approve David Malpass as its president today.Lars Idermark resigned as Swedbank’s chairman amid an investigation into alleged money laundering at the Swedish lender.President Trump plans to nominate Jovita Carranza, the U.S. treasurer, as his pick to lead the Small Business Administration, potentially replacing Linda McMahon.The Senate confirmed Mark Calabria, Vice President Mike Pence’s chief economist, as Mr. Trump’s pick to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Deals• The company created to hold Yahoo’s $50 billion stake in the Alibaba Group plans to finally dissolve itself and distribute its holdings. (WSJ)• The European Central Bank reportedly will ask Deutsche Bank to raise fresh capital if it merges with Commerzbank. (Reuters)• Shares in Tradeweb, the bond-trading platform, jumped 27 percent on the company’s first day on the public markets. (Bloomberg)• Canyon Capital began a proxy fight at the student loan provider Navient yesterday and plans to seek four board seats. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump backed off his plan to close the border with Mexico, and instead threatened auto tariffs. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump signaled that he may block an effort to obtain six years’ worth of his tax returns. But even if lawmakers got the documents, they may not get the financial details they’re seeking. (WaPo, Bloomberg)• Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she’d rather build on the Affordable Care Act than adopt Medicare-for-all. (WaPo)• The Justice Department defended Attorney General William Barr’s handling of the Mueller report. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May has asked the E.U. to extend the Brexit deadline to June 30. The European Council’s president, Donald Tusk, had reportedly been preparing to offer a 12-month flexible delay. (BBC)• Ms. May’s attempts to reach cross-party agreement on her Brexit deal have made little progress. She is expected to offer a written proposal to Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, which will reportedly let lawmakers vote on whether to hold a referendum on any Brexit deal. (FT, Guardian)Tech• Britain is reportedly considering holding social media executives personally liable for harmful content on their platforms. (Guardian)• Google has scrapped its A.I. ethics board a little over a week after it was announced, after its choice of panel members drew criticism. (FT)• Microsoft is investigating sexual harassment claims that employees say were overlooked by its H.R. department. (Quartz)• Amazon is denting Google’s ad dominance. And Snap is about to try to take some of the same pie, too. (WSJ, Recode)Best of the rest• Leaders of Berkshire Hathaway’s many businesses are collaborating far more often now, suggesting a new way of doing business once Warren Buffett is no longer C.E.O. (WSJ)• A Tokyo court approved a 10-day detention of Carlos Ghosn, which his lawyer plans to appeal. Meanwhile, his wife spoke out about his latest arrest. (Reuters, NYT)• WikiLeaks says that Ecuador will evict Julian Assange from its London embassy within days. Ecuador denies the claim. (Bloomberg, Business Insider)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The Trump administration is nearing a trade deal with China that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT write.What America could get:• The deal would “require Beijing to make big purchases of American agricultural and energy goods and to lower some barriers that prevent American companies from operating in China.”• The potential agreement “would expand markets for American financial services firms and farmers, in part by requiring that China buy large amounts of energy and farm goods, like liquid natural gas and soybeans.”• “The Trump administration has also been pushing China to accept an enforcement mechanism that would enable the United States to quickly reinstate tariffs if Beijing fails to live up to specific promises.”And China:• “In return, the United States would most likely drop its tariffs on at least $200 billion of the $250 billion worth of Chinese imports currently subject to American levies.”• Beijing is also “pushing for the elimination of all of the Trump tariffs, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said.””But “early details indicate it would do little to substantively change the way China has long done business and would not force Beijing to curtail cyber theft or the subsidies that the administration complains create an uneven playing field for American companies.”• “The language aimed at China’s discrimination against foreign companies, like its antimonopoly law or standard-setting processes, is probably too vague to be enforceable,” according to an unidentified source.• “The pact also doesn’t alter China’s tight restrictions on data,” and “many of the big purchases that Beijing is promising would occur over a number of years, which could give China further leverage.”More: How Apple prevailed in the trade war. And why President Trump’s battle hasn’t helped narrow the trade deficit.The Chinese telecom giant plans to take the U.S. government to court for banning federal agencies from using its products, Ray Zhong and Paul Mozur of the NYT report.• “The move could be aimed at forcing the United States government to more publicly make its case against the Chinese equipment maker.”• “It is part of a broad push by Huawei to defend itself against a campaign led by the United States to undermine the company, which Washington sees as a security threat.”• Huawei’s lawsuit will challenge a section in a defense-spending law that blocks federal agencies from using its equipment. The company will argue that the provision amounts to a “bill of attainder,” or a legislative act that singles out a person or group for punishment without trial.• Huawei’s C.F.O., Meng Wanzhou, has already sued Canadian authorities for arresting her and moving to extradite her to the U.S.• Not everyone thinks that Ms. Meng’s legal action is sensible. “The quest for justice is everyone’s right,” Tim Culpan of Bloomberg Opinion writes, “yet Huawei risks coming off as belligerent instead of the calm and trustworthy partner it’s trying to portray.”On Friday, the Trump re-election campaign — including its manager, Brad Parscale, and an adviser, Newt Gingrich — called for a nationwide “wholesale” 5G network, that would allow the government to control the spectrum and find a way to share it with carriers.“A 5G wholesale market would drive down costs and provide access to millions of Americans who are currently underserved,” Kayleigh McEnany, the campaign’s national press secretary, told Politico.The news was met with surprise as it’s at odds with current White House policy. Axios says it was unable to find telecom policy advisers inside the Trump administration “who knew in advance from the Trump campaign that it would make this announcement.” The telecoms industry has long argued against nationalized 5G networks.The campaign later walked back its comments. “The White House sets the policy on 5G and all issues,” Ms. McEnany said in a statement. “The campaign fully supports the president’s priorities and his policy agenda.”But it raises concerns about what happens next. The administration previously contemplated taking a role in 5G, as detailed in a National Security Council memo leaked early last year. Brendan Carr, an F.C.C. commissioner, called such a move “China-like nationalization.”In the wake of Amazon pulling out of plans for a campus in New York City, the NYT studied the tactics the company has used to drive hard bargains all over the country.• Amazon closed its only warehouse in Texas after state officials pushed the company to pay nearly $270 million in back taxes in 2010. Texas eventually waived the taxes in exchange for new warehouses.• South Carolina officials denied Amazon a sales tax break in 2010, but gave the company an exemption after it threatened to stop hiring there.• The company has collected over $2.4 billion in taxpayer subsidies for its locations, according to Good Jobs First, a nonprofit that tracks corporate tax breaks.• “They are just as cutthroat as can be,” Alex Perlstein, vice president of Market Street Services, told the NYT.• And Amazon has no regrets, according to the NYT: “Asked recently by a business publication if Amazon would change anything about the headquarters search in retrospect, Holly Sullivan, the Amazon executive who led the search, said: ‘You know, no. I think it was rewarding for us internally.’”Meanwhile, the NYT editorial board supports New York officials’ efforts to lure Amazon back: “Progressives shouldn’t stand athwart progress, yelling stop.”More: How Hollywood disrupted Jeff Bezos’s life as Amazon sought to disrupt its business. And Mr. Bezos’s security chief is said to be preparing a 90-page report accusing the National Enquirer’s parent company of running its exposé to curry favor with Saudi investors.A collection of the top tech minds in the country assembled at the NYT’s New Work Summit last week in Half Moon Bay, Calif. Here’s what some of them had to say about the future of artificial intelligence regulation:“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” said Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator.“We think democratically elected governments should be in the business of regulating technology companies — not the other way around,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president, said.“We’re fans of regulation when it’s smart regulation,” Kent Walker, Google’s chief legal officer, said. “What do I mean by that? So, regulation that starts out with a really crisp definition of what’s the problem you’re trying to solve? That is then narrowly tailored to solve that problem and minimize blowback and side effects.”“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Evan Spiegel of Snapchat said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”A fierce lobbying battle has arisen over an unlikely product, according to the NYT: human excrement, and more specifically its use in treating disease.• The skirmish is over the future of fecal microbiota transplants, a therapy that “transfers fecal matter from healthy donors into the bowels of ailing patients, restoring the beneficial works of the community of gut microbes that have been decimated by antibiotics.” The treatment is especially effective in treating Clostridioides difficile, also known as C. diff, a debilitating bacterial infection.• “At the heart of the controversy is a question of classification: Are the fecal microbiota that cure C. diff a drug, or are they more akin to organs, tissues and blood products that are transferred from the healthy to treat the sick?”• Most material currently used in fecal transplants comes from OpenBiome, a public stool bank in Massachusetts. But the F.D.A. has recently increased oversight that raised prices.• Several drug companies, including Rebiotix and Seres Therapeutics, have raised tens of millions of dollars from investors and begun lobbying the F.D.A. (A critic told the NYT they were the “poop drug cartel.”) The market for drug-based treatments of C. diff is estimated to eventually reach about $1.7 billion.• “At stake, some researchers says, is the future of pioneering therapies that harness the human microbiome — the trillions of organisms that colonize the body and are increasingly seen as critical for healthy brain development and immune function.”Ray Kelvin, the founder and C.E.O. of the British fashion chain Ted Baker, resigned amid accusations of inappropriate behavior.Fabio Schvartsman “temporarily” stepped down as Vale’s C.E.O. in the wake of a deadly dam burst in Brazil.KKR hired Kate Richdale, most recently the chairwoman of Goldman Sachs’s investment banking team in Asia, as its head of strategy and business development in the same region.John Havens stepped down as chairman of the hedge fund Napier Park Capital after being charged in a prostitution ring bust.The insurer Aviva named Maurice Tulloch, the head of its international operations, as its next C.E.O.Deals• Lyft publicly filed for an I.P.O. on Friday, revealing surging revenues but nearly $1 billion in losses. (NYT)• Nissan executives reportedly told Carlos Ghosn that the Japanese government would back their bid to block his proposed merger of the carmaker with its corporate sibling, Renault. (FT)• Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s competition commissioner, warned governments of the “consequences” of easing merger regulations. (FT)• The hedge fund BlueMountain nominated 12 candidates for the board of PG&E, including the lawyer Kenneth Feinberg and a veteran Democratic politician, Phil Angelides. (NYT)• The maker of Instant Pot agreed to merge with the parent company of Pyrex and CorningWare. (WSJ)Politics and policy• President Trump publicly criticized Jay Powell, the chair of the Federal Reserve, over the weekend. Mr. Powell’s European counterparts aren’t getting much love from their governments, either. (Bloomberg)• American intelligence officials increasingly emphasize economic, not national security, issues in their briefings to the president. (NYT)• A new poll showed that Americans don’t like socialism but want the federal government to become more active in helping them. (CNBC)• Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said he will request documents from more than 60 people, including Donald Trump Jr. and the C.F.O. of the Trump Organization. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May promised £1.6 billion, or about $2.1 billion, to poorer areas of Britain — and was quickly criticized for trying to buy the support of opposition lawmakers. (Bloomberg)• Pro-Brexit lawmakers outlined three conditions that Mrs. May must meet to win their support for her Brexit deal. (Times of London)Tech• France plans to introduce a five percent digital tax on the revenue of about 30 internet giants. (Bloomberg)• Uber’s chief legal officer is trying to clean up the company before it goes public. (NYT)• North Korean hackers hit over 100 American and allied targets as President Trump met with Kim Jong-un last week. (NYT)• Amazon reportedly plans to open a chain of grocery stores in the U.S. that would be separate from its Whole Foods brand. (WSJ)• Tesla says it will unveil a new S.U.V., the Model Y, on March 14. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer is using a new legal strategy, and thinks it’s possible the auto executive could “be released in the near future.” (Reuters)• What it’s like to work as a comment moderator on a far right website. (NYT Op-Ed)• Wells Fargo reached a $240 million settlement with its U.S. shareholders over the creation of millions of unauthorized customer accounts by its employees. (Reuters)• The first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the retirement of the space shuttles launched Saturday, and successfully docked with International Space Station last night. (NYT, BBC)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condé Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)DealBook exclusive: The energy company plans to announce today that it has given $5 million to Catalyst, a nonprofit focused on making corporate America more hospitable toward women.It’s funding Men Advocating Real Change, a Catalyst campaign that teaches male executives how to improve diversity and inclusion at their companies. (Among its tactics: lessons on unconscious bias.) Lorraine Hariton, Catalyst’s C.E.O., said it was the single biggest grant in the nonprofit’s 50-year history.Chevron has been a longtime supporter of Catalyst. It began working with the nonprofit 20 years ago, and Mike Wirth, the oil and gas giant’s C.E.O., helped introduce this program to the company two years ago. It now runs in seven Chevron offices worldwide.Diversity and inclusion has improved at Chevron. In 2010, only 6 percent of its board and 11 percent of its management committee were women. Now, it’s 36 percent for the board and 20 percent for the management committee. “I think the business case for this is compelling,” Mr. Wirth told Michael de la Merced of DealBook, saying more diversity has improved innovation.But there’s still a lot to do. Mr. Wirth said that oil and gas needed far more women in engineering and technical roles. And Ms. Hariton said that while companies have been hiring more women, the number of top female executives remains too small.President Trump is facing increasing pressure from Republicans, Democrats and even some of his own advisers to win the kind of large concessions that Beijing has long resisted, Alan Rappeport of the NYT writes.Mr. Trump has softened his threats against China. “Citing ‘substantial progress’ in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week,” Mr. Rappeport explains.But the Chinese may be dangling false promises, some top Democrats say, in hopes of ending a trade war that is damaging their economy, as well as hurting American farmers. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit and offers relief to Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.Many big sticking points remain, including China’s state subsidies for its businesses. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands over intellectual property and cybertheft.“The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said,” according to Mr. Rappeport.More: The FT imagines what a trade deal might look like. Trade war is only one of the threats worrying President Xi Jinping of Chin. U.S. companies are planning their lowest rate of expansion in China since 2016. And a delay on further tariffs probably staved off inflation in America.The Securities and Exchange Commission says a series of tweets Elon Musk published last week violate its agreement with Tesla, and wants him held in contempt of court.Mr. Musk got in trouble last year by tweeting that he had “funding secured” to take Tesla private, when that wasn’t exactly the case. Tesla settled, promising the S.E.C. that it would set up “mandatory procedures to oversee and preapprove Mr. Musk’s Tesla-related written communications.”Then last week, he tweeted about a manufacturing triumph, saying Tesla would make “around 500,000” cars this year, up from a target of 400,000. He soon corrected himself and repeated the target of 400,000 deliveries. Tesla’s lawyers conceded that Mr. Musk hadn’t had his tweets reviewed, but argued “the substance” of his post had already been vetted and publicly disclosed. Mr. Musk followed up by needling the S.E.C., tweeting that it “forgot to read Tesla earnings transcript,” in which he forecast production of between 350,000 and 500,000 cars. “How embarrassing,” he added.“This is not an innocuous tweet,” Rebecca Roiphe, a professor at New York Law School, told the NYT. “Insiders have to be careful about revealing misleading information to the public.”Punishments the S.E.C. could seek, Ms. Roiphe said, include a fine, more restrictions on Mr. Musk’s social media use, or even his removal as C.E.O.With just over a month to go before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U., Prime Minister Theresa May could U-turn on her commitment to keeping to schedule. And the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, under heavy pressure, has promised to support a second public vote.Mrs. May is letting her cabinet think the unthinkable. The prime minister, who has repeatedly insisted that Brexit will occur on March 29, will allow her colleagues “to discuss extending the deadline” today, according to Bloomberg, which sets out what she’d be risking and why:• “On one hand, it would avert mass resignations from pro-E.U. ministers in May’s team, and potentially a defeat in Parliament this week.”• “But it would also risk a destabilizing backlash from Euroskeptic Conservatives.”And Mr. Corbyn has made a big concession to pro-Europeans. He had long resisted a second Brexit referendum, but has had to reconsider after several pro-E.U. lawmakers quit his Labour Party. Stephen Castle of the NYT explains what the reversal means:• “At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea.”• “But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.”Dozens of current and former employees of a company called Cognizant, which reviews content for the social network, spoke to the Verge. The investigation makes for grim reading:• “Employees described a workplace that is perpetually teetering on the brink of chaos. It is an environment where workers cope by telling dark jokes about committing suicide, then smoke weed during breaks to numb their emotions.”• “In stark contrast to the perks lavished on Facebook employees, team leaders micromanage content moderators’ every bathroom and prayer break,” and employees “have been found having sex inside stairwells.”• “They are pressured not to discuss the emotional toll that their job takes on them, even with loved ones, leading to increased feelings of isolation and anxiety.”• “Moderators told me it’s a place where the conspiracy videos and memes that they see each day gradually lead them to embrace fringe views. One auditor walks the floor promoting the idea that the Earth is flat.”• “Moderators in Phoenix will make just $28,800 per year — while the average Facebook employee has a total compensation of $240,000.” Facebook’s response: In a statement yesterday, it said it was “putting in place a rigorous and regular compliance and audit process for all of our outsourced partners to ensure they are complying with the contracts and care we expect.”Bank of America plans to erase the Merrill Lynch name from its investment banking and trading arms. They’ll go by “BofA Securities” rather than “Bank of America Merrill Lynch,” and its wealth-management unit will be “Merrill.”It’s the end of an era. Merrill Lynch was one of the best-known names on Wall Street when Bank of America bought it during the 2008 financial crisis. At the time, Bank of America was a big lender, built from years of acquisitions — but a minnow in high finance.The combined firm struggled with culture clashes. Longtime Merrill employees were proud of “Mother Merrill” and the “thundering herd” that was its wealth-management arm. The WSJ reports that Bank of America backed away from changing the name before.But now it wants a seamless identity. “We are continuing to unify the company, continuing down the road we started on a decade ago,” Bank of America’s C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, told the WSJ. (He has also pushed the firm into safe businesses, de-emphasizing the risk-taking that left Merrill needing a buyer.)The only place where staying as Merrill made sense was in wealth management. Mr. Moynihan called it “the No. 1 brand there is.”Last year, President Trump replaced Janet Yellen with Jerome Powell as head of the Federal Reserve. Since, Mr. Trump has broken with precedent by publicly criticizing Mr. Powell for raising interest rates. Ms. Yellen has now made clear what she thinks of all that in an interview with Marketplace.• When the host of Marketplace, Kai Ryssdal, asked if she thought the president “has a grasp of macroeconomic policy,” Ms. Yellen replied, “No, I do not.”• When asked to elaborate, she said, “Well, I doubt that he would even be able to say that the Fed’s goals are maximum employment and price stability.”• “He’s made comments about the Fed having an exchange rate objective in order to support his trade plans, or possibly targeting the U.S. balance of trade,” she added. “And, you know, I think comments like that shows a lack of understanding of the impact of the Fed on the economy, and appropriate policy goals.”Amazon added the former PepsiCo C.E.O. Indra Nooyi to its board.Deals• G.E., continuing to dismantle itself, agreed to sell its biopharmaceutical business to Danaher for $21.4 billion. (NYT)• Warren Buffett admitted that Berkshire Hathaway overpaid for its stake in Kraft Heinz and said it wouldn’t buy more shares: “The business does not earn more just because you pay more for it.” (Bloomberg)• Barrick Gold’s $17.8 billion bid for Newmont Mining has cast a spotlight on two top deal makers: Barrick’s chairman, John Thornton, and Michael Klein, the rainmaker advising him. (Bloomberg)• How lesser-known private equity firms like Veritas Capital and CC Capital are stealing the limelight from larger rivals. (FT)• The telecom company Windstream filed for bankruptcy protection after losing a court fight with a hedge fund. (Barron’s)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen reportedly plans to tell the House Oversight Committee today that President Trump broke the law while in office. (WSJ)• The Senate appears likely to vote against Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall. (Politico)• Alva Johnson, who worked on the 2016 Trump campaign, has accused Mr. Trump of forcibly kissing her. (NYT)• Elizabeth Warren plans to forego fund-raising events with big donors. (NYT)• Meet Andrew Goldstein, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies for his investigation into the president. (NYT)Tech• Telecom equipment appears not to be the only Chinese tech that makes the U.S. government nervous. (CNBC)• California lawmakers want to toughen the state’s already-strict privacy laws. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft defended its military work after protests from some employees last week. (Wired)• Why Toronto is attracting top tech talent. (FT)• T-Mobile has delayed its full 5G launch until later in 2019. (Verge)Best of the rest• Do two troubled banks make one good one? Germany may soon find out. (NYT)• Why proving Jeff Bezos’ accusations of blackmail and extortion could be tricky. (NYT)• Lyft’s I.P.O. has revived a debate: Should a minority of investors be allowed to control a company through dual-class shares? (FT)• The current stock market rally has everything — except investors. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.The matter of where and when President Trump will deliver his State of the Union address appears to be settled for now, after an extended face-off with Speaker Nancy Pelosi.Ms. Pelosi disinvited Mr. Trump from speaking in the House chamber while the shutdown continued. Late yesterday, after talking of  making his speech somewhere else, he tweeted a decision to delay:This is her prerogative - I will do the Address when the Shutdown is over.Other shutdown developments:• The Republican-controlled Senate votes today on two partisan proposals to end the shutdown. Neither is expected to advance.• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has declined to testify to a House committee about how the shutdown will affect tax refund processing. Senate Democrats also raised concerns about federal employees losing some health benefits and about the Trump administration’s continued work on offshore drilling.• Most of the 800,000 federal workers going unpaid are unionized, but they’re not speaking with a unified voice. Some labor groups have supported the shutdown, but aviation unions called it an “unconscionable” safety threat and said they could not “predict the point at which the entire system will break.”• Companies like Boeing are beginning to fear long-term effects on business. Others are trying workarounds as the absence of securities regulators stalls the I.P.O. market.• Lara Trump, a daughter-in-law of the president, drew criticism for her description of the shutdown as “a little bit of pain” and a worthy “sacrifice” for federal employees.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Economists, some of them working for the Trump administration, have plenty to worry about, including the shutdown, slowing growth in major economies, tensions over tariffs and hesitation from consumers.But executives from Wells Fargo, AT&T and elsewhere are opting for optimism, predicting strong revenue growth and a trade deal with China, write Emily Flitter and Jim Tankersley.Some recent news seems to be on the economists’ side:Commodity traders fear futures: Risks associated with political uncertainty have driven traders to near-term contracts for oil, soybeans and wheat.“A new Cold War”: Tyler Cowen of Bloomberg writes that the U.S. and China are “carving out separate economic and political orders,” marked by a “collapse of trust” that could lead to a bidirectional blockade on travel and investment.Car trouble: Tariff costs and sputtering demand led to skidding overseas sales at Ford and at Hyundai, which posted its first quarterly net loss in at least eight years.The world’s business elite, gathered at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, appeared to agree that economic growth was slowing. But CNBC got a range of outlooks when asking about the possibility of a global recession.Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said only geopolitical worries could stop the U.S. economy from sailing ahead. “They’re kind of buoys in the water in front of that ship,” he said. “Eventually that may very well cause a slowdown or a recession.”Ray Dalio, the founder of Bridgewater Associates, said recession was now a “significant risk.” “It’s going to be globally a slow-up,” he said. “It’s not just the United States; it’s Europe; and it’s China and Japan.”Steve Schwarzman, the Blackstone chairman and chief executive, was more optimistic. “I don’t see any recession,” he said. “Consumer confidence is down a little bit, which I think comes from some of the dysfunction, but they are still spending a lot of money.”More news from Davos: China’s vice president, Wang Qishan, acknowledged that Beijing faced some risks, but brushed off widespread economic fears. “There will be a lot of uncertainties in 2019, but one certainty is that China’s growth will continue and be sustainable,” he said. Leaders from Japan, China, Germany and South Africa spoke in favor of international oversight for technology companies, but without a consensus on the details.The chairman of the Chinese telecommunications firm Huawei said it was being unfairly targeted by espionage claims without any proof. But the WSJ, citing unnamed sources, says the U.S. believes that the company’s close ties to the Chinese government and the importance of the telecom equipment it supplies already make clear that it’s a security threat.Huawei’s defense: China says it has no rule that forces its tech companies to install back doors in their products, and legal experts say its data-sharing requirements, though broad, apply only to networks inside the country.U.S. concerns: Huawei has no choice but to obey the Chinese government, officials contend, and its potential usefulness for spying has grown as wireless providers upgrade equipment to prepare for 5G networks.Other Huawei news: Canada’s ambassador to China spoke of “strong arguments” against extraditing one of the company’s executives to the U.S. Huawei could become the world’s biggest smartphone seller this year even without the U.S. market. It has been promised fair treatment by the prime minister of New Zealand. But its donations will no longer be accepted by The Prince’s Trust, the charity founded by the Prince of Wales.Kenneth Griffin, the billionaire founder of the Citadel hedge fund, closed on a New York penthouse for roughly $238 million, the highest price paid for a home in the U.S. At nearly 24,000 square feet, the unit is a combination of two apartments at 220 Central Park South, a tower being developed by Vornado Trust Realty.Mr. Griffin has made a string of similar record-breaking acquisitions, including in Chicago, Miami Beach and London.Carlos Ghosn, in jail awaiting trial on financial misconduct charges in Toyko, has now resigned as chairman and chief executive of Renault, according to France’s finance minister. (NYT)Under Armour has hired Tchernavia Rocker, a former Harley-Davidson executive, to run its H.R. with the title of chief people and culture officer. (Baltimore Sun)Restaurant Brands International named Jose Cil, the president of its Burger King brand, as chief executive, replacing Daniel Schwartz. (FT)Mike Joo, Bank of America’s head of global rates and currencies origination, will become operating chief as David Glaser retires. (Reuters)Deals• Some of the largest private equity groups in the U.S. and Europe are preparing bids for the owner of Mergermarket, a financial information service. (FT)• Tencent and two private equity firms, Hillhouse Capital and KKR, are said to be considering bids to acquire a stake in the gaming company Nexon. (Bloomberg)Tech • Hulu is raising the price of its live TV service, while lowering the price of a basic subscription. (WSJ)• Video game revenue is facing its first decline since 1995, with sales expected to fall by 1 percent to $136.5 billion this year, according to a top industry analyst. (Bloomberg)• Verizon Media Group, formerly known as Oath, is said to be laying off 800 people, 7 percent of its work force. (CNBC)• Microsoft’s Bing has been blocked in China, reportedly because of an accidental technical error. (Bloomberg)• Apple laid off more than 200 workers from its autonomous vehicle unit, Project Titan. (CNBC)• The places where artificial intelligence will affect the most jobs are in the Midwestern states that voted for President Trump, a Brookings report finds. (Reuters)• Boeing said its flying car prototype stayed briefly airborne during a test. It’s in a race with Airbus and others over the technology. (Reuters)Politics and policy • Michael Cohen indefinitely postponed plans to testify before Congress, citing verbal attacks from his former client President Trump. (NYT)• Joe Biden earned $200,000 for a speech in October praising a vulnerable Republican House member in Michigan. The congressman, Fred Upton, won re-election. (NYT)• President Emmanuel Macron’s tax proposals would most benefit France’s wealthiest, a new analysis found. (FT)• President Trump formally recognized Juan Guaidó as the interim president of Venezuela, prompting Nicolás Maduro, who was sworn in for a second term on Jan. 10, to demand that American diplomats leave the country. (NYT)Best of the rest • BuzzFeed plans to lay off 15 percent of its employees: around 200 people in the international and web content departments, including news. (NYT)• Sony will move its European headquarters to the Netherlands from Britain to avoid customs issues after Brexit. (BBC)• Airbus said its plants in Britain might not survive a no-deal Brexit, and that the country’s whole aviation industry stood “at a precipice.” (CNN)• David Einhorn explained in a letter why his hedge funds lost more than a third of their value last year. (CNBC)• U.S. oil exploration and production companies have sharply cut back their capital raising as crude prices have fallen. (FT)• PG&E said it could cost up to $150 billion to obey a judge’s order to inspect its power grid and deal with wildfire risks from nearby trees. (Reuters)• The Singapore investment giant Jardine Matheson briefly lost $41 billion in market value because of what traders speculate was a “fat finger” error. (Bloomberg)• Lawyers are seeking up to $106.5 million from Fiat Chrysler in a settlement over excess emissions from its diesel vehicles. They said their case involved more than four million pages of documents and nearly 100 depositions. (Reuters)• To help relieve pressure on South Africa’s medical system, patients with H.I.V., hypertension and diabetes can access drugs through A.T.M.-style self-serve dispensaries. (FT)• Walmart wants to hire hundreds of truckers, offering them an average of $87,500 a year, predictable schedules and set time off. (CBS)• A U.S. appeals court ruled that a federal law prohibiting age bias in employment does not apply to outside job applicants. (Reuters)• Chinese automakers have struggled to succeed in the U.S. Their next hope is a $5,000 electric pickup truck. (Bloomberg)• Movie theaters sold 1.3 billion tickets in the U.S. last year, setting a box-office record of $11.9 billion in revenue. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s giant oil company, announced yesterday that it had bought 70 percent of the kingdom’s state-controlled petrochemical company, Sabic, for $69.1 billion.This is an alternative to an Aramco I.P.O. The deal for a majority stake in Sabic will provide a windfall for its majority owner: Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Aramco’s postponed plan to sell some of itself on a public stock market would have accomplished something similar.Saudi Arabia now has the money it wanted to modernize its economy. The kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, hopes to fund a campaign to wean Saudi Arabia off oil, by investing in new technology and clean energy. Aramco has now given his government the billions required to do so.And banks still get a gusher of fees. Financial firms that had worked on an Aramco I.P.O. pivoted to advisory roles on the Sabic deal, and many will arrange what’s expected to be a huge bond sale to help finance the transaction.Expect a peek into Aramco’s books. As part of a bond offering, the oil company will have to disclose its financial operations to potential investors. It’s unclear how much it will reveal, but any look at its huge oil reserves is sure to be of interest.The planemaker explained yesterday what it plans to do to upgrade its 737 Max 8 planes, after two fatal crashes in recent months raised global concerns about its safety.Pilots will have more control to override anti-stall software and new alerts, the company said at an event at its factory in Renton, Wash. They will also receive additional training.Boeing defended its Max 8 design process. “In general the process has worked and continues to work, and we see no reason to overhaul the process,” an unnamed Boeing official told the media. (A spokesman later told the WaPo that the comment referred to the plane’s development process, not its safety certifications.)Senators raised questions about safety checks for the Max 8 at a hearing yesterday, pressing federal regulators on all aspects of the process:• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, called the current situation “troubling.”• The acting F.A.A. chief, Daniel Elwell, said delegating authority was crucial. Otherwise, he added, the agency needed an extra 10,000 employees and $1.8 billion to oversee safety certification.• The Transportation Department’s inspector general, Calvin Scovel, said his office would conduct an audit into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Max 8.But lawmakers remain skeptical about the regulatory process. “The F.A.A. decided to do safety on the cheap, which is neither cheap nor safe,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.American and Chinese officials continued to piece together a trade deal during talks in Beijing this week, but progress remains relatively slow.“We have moved forward in all areas,” one unidentified senior U.S. administration official told Reuters. The source said that in particular progress has been made on the practice of forced transfer of American technology to Chinese companies, a central issue for the Trump administration.But “we aren’t yet where we want to be,” the official conceded. The FT adds that “even agreement in less controversial areas — such as increased purchases of U.S. exports and improved market access for foreign investors — is proving difficult to pin down.”Senior U.S. officials arrive in Beijing today to continue the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will seek to make more progress. Next week, Vice Premier Liu He of China will head to Washington.The timing of a deal looks increasingly uncertain. “It could go to May, June, no one knows. It could happen in April, we don’t know,” a U.S. official told Reuters.More: Senate Republicans warned President Trump that his tariffs could plunge the U.S. into a recession ahead of the 2020 election.In a last-ditch effort to gain support for her Brexit plan, Prime Minister Theresa May yesterday offered to resign as long as her agreement is approved, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.Her offer came as Parliament tried to sideline her by coming up with its own plan for Britain’s exit from the E.U. “But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the E.U., none mustered a majority,” Mr. Castle writes.“If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.”But while her deal is gaining some support, many lawmakers are still holding out. Mrs. May will need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against the agreement — twice. Mr. Castle writes that it is “a very tall order.”More: The fund manager Mark Mobius said that the state of Britain’s debt and currency make it look “like an emerging market now.”Behind the Trump administration’s decision this week to seek a complete rejection of the Affordable Care Act was a political wager: Can President Trump appease supporters by upholding a 2016 campaign pledge?Mr. Trump made his decision on Monday after a heated debate in the White House, the NYT reports. Egging on the president were the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and a top policy aide, Joe Grogan. Opposing the move were the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone; the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar; and the attorney general, Bill Barr.The argument for taking on Obamacare, according to the NYT: “Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it.”Republican lawmakers are worried. They lost control of the House last year largely because of voter concerns about health care. “We need a plan, and right now we don’t have one,” one unnamed Republican senator told Politico.Others are betting against Mr. Trump. Legal scholars think that Chief Justice John Roberts would again defend the law if the matter heads to the Supreme Court. And recent polls show that independent voters don’t approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of health care.More health care news: A federal judge blocked Kentucky and Arkansas from imposing work requirements on Medicaid, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program. A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.There are “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, according to the report, which was released this morning. They could be exploited by governments or independent hackers, creating a risk to national security.The report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, and “described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities,” Mr. Satariano writes. The findings were endorsed by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s argument that Huawei is a grave risk to national security. Yet allies have resisted that push.They still want to manage the risks of using Huawei hardware rather than blocking it outright, to avoid losing momentum in building new high-speed wireless data networks. Earlier this year, the head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said that a complete ban wasn’t necessary.Investors increasingly think that as the global economy slows down, the Fed will have to cut interest rates. Officials at the central bank say that’s not in the cards — at least, not yet, Nick Timiraos of the WSJ reports.• The most recent sign of a rate cut, according to some investors, was last week’s yield-curve inversion. That was when yields on long-term Treasury notes fell below those of short-term ones, which is often interpreted as a harbinger of recession.• But some Fed officials urge patience. “I’d need to see an inversion of some magnitude and/or some duration, and right now we don’t have either,” Bob Kaplan, the president of the Dallas Fed, told the WSJ.• “If you see an inversion that goes on for several months … that’s a different kettle of fish,” he added.• The San Francisco Fed president, Mary Daly, said in a speech earlier this week that she’s “not freaked out” by the yield curve, and “hopefully businesses and market participants won’t freak out” either.More: The European Central Bank is considering how to help the continent’s banks as interest rates look to remain subzero. Swedbank fired Birgitte Bonneson as its C.E.O. today amid allegations that the Swedish lender was involved in Russian money-laundering.Chris Schaepe was ousted from Lightspeed Venture Partners after telling the firm he had hired the consultant at the heart of the college admissions scandal, though he has not been charged.Tim Throsby will step down as the head of Barclays’ investment bank.JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to lay off hundreds of workers in its asset-management and wealth divisions.Deals• The pending I.P.O.s of Lyft and Pinterest highlight the debate over dual-class shares that let founders control companies with relatively small stock holdings. (DealBook)• Pimco and Elliott Management are reportedly pitching California lawmakers on a restructuring plan for PG&E, the bankrupt utility. (Bloomberg)• Commerzbank employees are reportedly gearing up to oppose a merger with Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Casper, the mattress company, raised $100 million from Target and other investors at a valuation of $1.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Bustle Digital, which owns Gawker, agreed to buy The Outline, a struggling online publisher. (Recode)Politics and policy• President Trump is getting exactly what he wants from the U.S. economy — just as economic forecasters are predicting a slowdown. (NYT)• The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether to curb the power of administrative agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs. (NYT)• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to the Fed, owes $75,000 in unpaid federal taxes and penalties. (NYT)• The House Oversight and Reform Committee is seeking 10 years’ worth of Mr. Trump’s financial records from an accounting firm. (Politico)• The Trump administration has reportedly strengthened its support for Israel in part because the shale boom has made the U.S. less dependent on oil imports. (FT)Tech• Facebook will ban white nationalist content from its platforms. Related: why video games are fertile ground for white nationalist recruitment. (NYT, NYT Op-Ed)• More on Facebook: Here’s a peek inside the growth machine that gave it more than a billion users. (FT)• Microsoft seized 99 websites that it said were used by Iranian hackers to try to steal sensitive information from people in Washington. (NYT)• President Trump met with Sundar Pichai of Google yesterday, and tweeted that the C.E.O. is “totally committed to the U.S. Military, not the Chinese Military.” (WSJ)• Flaws in Bitcoin may mean that it never bounces back to its heights. (Economist)• Millennials might not be giving up on car ownership after all. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• A newly formed Nissan committee recommended overhauling the company’s board in order to move past the arrest of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• A New Jersey jury unanimously cleared Johnson & Johnson in the latest trial over whether its talc products caused a consumer’s cancer. (NYT)• But a California jury awarded $80.3 million in damages to a man who it decided had contracted cancer from exposure to Bayer’s Roundup weedkiller. (WSJ)• Bill McGlashan, who was ousted from TPG over the college admission scandal, argued yesterday that he hadn’t actually done anything illegal — yet. (Recode)• The Chinese delivery company Meituan is so cheap, it’s changing how people eat. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• How a TripAdvisor worker helped hunt down a prolific robocaller. (Wired)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Democratic and Republican negotiators said last night that they had an “agreement in principle” on border security funding that could keep the federal government open.The deal includes $1.38 billion to pay for 55 miles of new fencing, technology and staffing for border protection. It’s not the $5.7 billion that President Trump had demanded to build a 200-mile wall. Democrats waived their demand for limits on detention capacity for immigrants.But there’s no guarantee that it will go through. The House and Senate would have to vote on the pact, and Mr. Trump would have to sign it. “I think everyone will say, ‘Good work,’ ” Representative Kay Granger of Texas, one of the Republican negotiators, said. Still, at a rally in Texas last night, Mr. Trump insisted that he will build a wall. And influential Republican commentators like the Fox News host Sean Hannity called the deal a “garbage compromise.”The remaining alternatives are hugely unattractive. Politico notes that a potential White House plan to redirect unspent federal funds toward the wall would “create a firestorm.” And another government shutdown could hit the U.S. economy and endanger aviation safety.The British prime minister is scheduled to update lawmakers later today on progress in negotiations on withdrawing from the E.U.She has a big favor to ask. Mrs. May is focused on making changes to the so-called backstop in her exit deal, which is designed to prevent a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. She has made little headway. Bloomberg explains her plan for today:• Mrs. May will “update Parliament on the progress of talks with the E.U. and outline a motion she’ll put before M.P.s for debate on Thursday, her office said.”• She “is expected to ask Parliament to restate its demand to remove the backstop from the Withdrawal Agreement and to promise a further vote if she hasn’t brought a renegotiated deal back to Parliament by Feb. 27.”• The aim is “to reassure members from across the House of Commons who are concerned that May is deliberately running down the clock and risking a potentially disastrous no-deal divorce.”But the E.U. still isn’t budging. Its chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said yesterday that “something has to give on the British side.”Yet Mrs. May could force her plan through Parliament. Bloomberg explains how, though it also admits that “a lot could go wrong.”More Brexit news: Britain had its weakest economic growth in six years last year. It has signed a trade deal with Switzerland, its biggest since the 2016 Brexit referendum. And its government is being sued for awarding a contract for freight shipments after a no-deal Brexit to a ferry company with no boats.The former Fed chairman recently sat down with Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Capital for a wide-ranging conversation, with topics from the state of the U.S. to the principles of good government. Don’t have time to watch? Here are the highlights:On Washington: Mr. Volcker lamented the condition of the U.S. government, repeating past criticisms. “You’ve got presidents who don’t seem to mind either personal behavior or making outrageous statements, true or not,” he told Mr. Dalio. “You have a Congress that’s been unable to function effectively.”On the Civil Service: For the former Fed chairman, an important problem to solve now is how to make government work again appear to be honorable. “Public administration’s a bad word now,” he told Mr. Dalio, leaving important government departments without effective leaders.What Mr. Volcker is doing: He has set up the Volcker Alliance, which is meant to help schools train future government officials. “It’s a great trick,” Mr. Volcker said. “How can you get the expertise and leadership you need and still respect the popular desire?”Optimism about personal finances hasn’t been this high in more than 16 years, according to a study by Gallup.Sixty-nine percent of Americans expect to be better off this time next year. That is “only two percentage points below the all-time high of 71 percent, recorded in March 1998,” according to Gallup. That’s in a survey carried out between Jan. 2 and Jan. 10, in the middle of the government shutdown.Half of respondents say they’re better off than they were a year ago. That figure had been consistently under half since 2007, Gallup says.The optimism is hard to overstate. “Only 11 times in 109 polls stretching back to 1976 have at least half of those polled said they were in better financial shape than they had been a year prior,” Gallup notes. “Only once in 114 polls going back to 1977 have Americans been more optimistic about their personal finances in the coming year than they are today.”“Europe is sleepwalking into oblivion, and the people of Europe need to wake up before it is too late,” George Soros writes in an opinion piece on Project Syndicate:• “Neither our leaders nor ordinary citizens seem to understand that we are experiencing a revolutionary moment, that the range of possibilities is very broad, and that the eventual outcome is thus highly uncertain.”• “The next inflection point will be the elections for the European Parliament in May 2019. Unfortunately, anti-European forces will enjoy a competitive advantage in the balloting.”• “The first step to defending Europe from its enemies, both internal and external, is to recognize the magnitude of the threat they present. The second is to awaken the sleeping pro-European majority and mobilize it to defend the values on which the E.U. was founded.”The firm said yesterday that it would buy Solium Capital, which manages stock paid out to corporate employees, for $900 million. It’s the biggest deal by a major Wall Street firm since the financial crisis — so what’s the rationale?The bank wants in on millennial wealth. Solium’s clients include start-ups, like Instacart and Stripe, which could go public at multibillion-dollar valuations — making some employees very rich.Wall Street approves of the strategy. Analysts at Evercore ISI wrote yesterday that Solium gives Morgan Stanley “a real path towards the organic growth and next generation of clients that many investors have been questioning.” Matthew Klein of Barron’s wrote last week that millennials could hold the key to improving American productivity — and wealth.And banks seem newly hungry for deals. Days before Morgan Stanley’s acquisition, BB&T agreed to buy SunTrust in the biggest bank merger since the 2008 crisis. Banking chiefs seem heartened by loosened regulations on their sector — and eager to capitalize through acquisitions. “We’d like to do more,” James Gorman, Morgan Stanley’s C.E.O., told the WSJ. (And JPMorgan Chase has reportedly considered buying the asset manager WisdomTree, according to Bloomberg.)It’s just eight months until Mario Draghi’s finishes his nonrenewable term as president of the European Central Bank. Choosing his successor is both important and difficult, the WSJ reports:• Investors have trusted Mr. Draghi, the WSJ says, as they navigate “a toxic mix of risks in Europe, from Brexit to trade wars.”• “At least five unofficial candidates appear to be in the running to replace him, according to European officials: two Frenchmen, two Finns and a German. The candidates have very different economic philosophies, and there is no clear front-runner.”• The winner might be chosen to balance the nationalities of the E.U.’s leadership, rather than purely on merit. The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo, chief executive of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels think tank, on the risks of that. “It’s the most systemically important job in Europe, this man controls the show,” he said. “It can go badly wrong.”WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results from U.S. companies in an attempt to better understand the slowing of China’s economic growth.What they found: Many companies are “struggling with weaker demand from export manufacturers in China, which are pulling back amid fears that trade tensions will worsen,” Austen Hufford and Theo Francis of the WSJ report. “Retailers and other companies catering to Chinese consumers face signs of weakness among the country’s growing middle class. They are buying fewer cars, phones and are traveling less.”The conclusion: “The indications are that slowing growth there is broad, if still modest,” Mr. Hufford and Mr. Francis write.Just half of PG&E’s directors will stand for re-election this year after the utility filed for bankruptcy amid the California wildfires.Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace, its C.O.O., as  chief executive, replacing Ian Cook.GV, the venture capital arm of Alphabet, hired David Schenkein, the former C.E.O. of Agios Pharmaceuticals, as its co-head of life sciences.Apple named Frank Casanova, a longtime iPhone executive, as its first head of marketing for augmented reality.Sony appointed Jim Ryan as C.E.O. of its PlayStation business.Deals• Colony Capital, the investment firm founded by the real estate mogul Tom Barrack, will explore selling assets after an activist hedge fund, Blackwells Capital, took a stake. (Colony)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $940 million investment in Nuro, a driverless delivery start-up. (FT)• Amazon agreed to buy Eero, which makes wireless routers, to advance its smart-home ambitions. (Reuters)• Peloton, which makes video-streaming stationary bikes and treadmills, is reportedly interviewing banks to prepare for an I.P.O. (WSJ)• DoorDash, the delivery start-up, is reportedly in the process of raising $500 million at a $6 billion valuation. (WSJ)• Reddit raised $150 million from Tencent — and its users now fear censorship. (Verge)Politics and policy• President Trump and Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York will meet today to discuss revising a cap on deductions for state and local taxes. (Bloomberg)• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors, rather than traditional wealthy backers, as a test of viability for the 2020 race. (WaPo)• Contrary to popular belief, Mr. Trump’s presidency has hurt America’s gun lobby. (NYT editorial)Trade• President Trump is reportedly eager to meet with President Xi Jinping of China to discuss a trade deal. (Bloomberg)• American tariffs on Chinese goods have reduced the two countries’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies. (Axios)• Chinese investments in Israeli tech companies are raising security concerns. (WSJ)Tech• What’s it like to be a contractor at one of Apple’s less glamorous offices? Not much fun. (Bloomberg)• Mars One Ventures, which promised one-way trips to the red planet, is bankrupt. (Verge)• If New York doesn’t want a new Amazon campus, Newark does. (Bloomberg)• Alphabet and Microsoft are discreetly warning that A.I. could harm their brands. (Wired)The Jeff Bezos saga• The American Media Inc. lawyer who reportedly sought a deal over Mr. Bezos’s private photos was once an Amazon Kindle executive. (WSJ)• American Media reportedly asked the Justice Department whether it needed to register as a foreign agent because of its ties to Saudi Arabia. (WSJ)• The WaPo has found itself in a tricky situation: reporting on its owner’s fight with The National Enquirer, while being a cause of the battle. (NYT)Best of the rest• Could leveraged loans sink the U.S. economy? (FT)• For two years, Goldman Sachs bet on companies with strong balance sheets. Not anymore. (CNBC)• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says there’s a “mania” for share buybacks, and that he’s worried about the social consequences. (CNBC)• Toys ‘R’ Us is planning a comeback later this year. (NYT)• Is corporate America headed toward an earnings recession? (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Elizabeth Frei and Benjamin Duchek connected through Tinder, the dating app, in late December 2016, but didn’t meet in person until the following March. He was stationed at the time at Fort Dix, in New Jersey, but his position as a major general’s aide brought him regularly to Washington, where Ms. Frei lives.In the time before they met, the two texted often and then eventually talked every night on the telephone. That gave them a lot of time to get to know each other, so that when they did finally meet, “We had a 12-hour first date,” Mr. Duchek said.The two had found that they had much in common, and both admire the kindness that they see in each other.“It’s what I love most about her: She never has a mean word to say about anyone,” he said.She realized she could rely on him, always. “When you really need him there, he shows up,” Ms. Frei said. “He doesn’t complain and it was so eye-opening for me to be in a relationship where I know I can count on that person.”In July, she brought him to her family’s lake cabin in Minnesota. “In the first minute, my mom said to my dad, ‘This is it. This is the one,’” Ms. Frei said.Ms. Frei recalls having had some trepidation about how her new boyfriend would feel about being thrust into the family’s traditional — and mandatory — Independence Day talent show. He did 100 push-ups for his talent. “It was such a weird situation, and he just took it head-on and enjoyed it and totally rocked it,” she said.“It was the moment I really, really knew I wanted to spend the rest of my life with Ben,” she added.Read more. Jia Zhang and Eric Ross Finkelstein were married Jan. 4 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. A staff member of the New York City Clerk’s Office, officiated.The couple met at the Rhode Island School of Design, from which each graduated.Ms. Zhang, 37, is a research scholar at Columbia University’s Center for Spatial Research. She received master’s degrees from Parsons School of Design and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She also received a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Media Lab.The bride is the daughter of Hong Zheng and Xiaobin Zhang of Beijing. Jia’s father is the chairman in Beijing for ELife Holdings, an investment holding company in Hong Kong, and was formerly the China senior adviser and managing director at J.P. Morgan. Her mother is the founder and principal of Dandelion School in Beijing, a nonprofit school for the children of migrant workers.Mr. Finkelstein, 37, is a founder and an owner of Court Street Grocers, a group of restaurants in Brooklyn and Manhattan.The groom is the son of Lawrence B. Finkelstein of Brooklyn and the late Susan B. Gluck, who lived in Hollis Hills, Queens. The groom’s father, who is retired, was a real-estate tax consultant in private practice in Hollis Hills. He currently serves as a baker and delivery driver for Court Street Grocers.Martha Rose Shulman and Robert Alan Israel were married Jan. 5 at their home in Los Angeles. The bride’s sister, Melodie Bryant, who was ordained through the American Marriage Ministries, officiated.Ms. Shulman, 68, is the daughter of the late Carol R. Shulman and the late writer Max Shulman, who lived in Westport, Conn. The bride is a cookbook author, having written works like “Mediterranean Light,” “The Vegetarian Feast” and “The Simple Art of Vegetarian Cooking.” Ms. Shulman is also a food columnist, having been featured in The Los Angeles Times and The New York Times.Mr. Israel, 79, is the son of the late Lillian R. Israel and the late Dr. Barney B. Israel, who lived in Detroit. The groom is an opera and theater set and costume designer based in Los Angeles. His work has been seen at the Metropolitan Opera, the National Operas in London and Tokyo, the Paris Opera and the Vienna State Opera, among others. Israel’s costume drawings are in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. He has designed the world premieres of four operas by Philip Glass and is the former chairman of the Theater Department at the University of California, Los Angeles.The couple met through a mutual friend in 2015.The bride’s first marriage ended in divorce and the groom was a widower.Elizabeth Moira Dean and Erin Marie Randall were married Jan. 5 at Weber’s Boutique Hotel in Ann Arbor, Mich. Stacey Swickerath, a Universal Life minister, officiated.Ms. Dean (left), 30, is a web administrator at the University of Michigan School of Education in Ann Arbor. She graduated from Muhlenberg College in Allentown, Pa., and received a master’s degree from the University of Maryland and a micromaster’s degree from the University of Michigan School of Information.Ms. Dean is the daughter of Kathleen M. McGettigan Dean and Gregory F. Dean of Potomac, Md. Ms. Dean’s father is the vice president for curriculum development at America’s Health Insurance Plans in Washington. Her mother is the chief management officer at the Office of Personnel Management in Washington.Ms. Randall, 26, is a third-year law student at the University of Michigan. She graduated summa cum laude from American University in Washington and served as a political appointee in the Obama administration at the Department of Education in the Office for Civil Rights. This fall, she is to begin as an associate in Washington in the financial services practice at the law firm Dechert.Ms. Randall is a daughter of Tina M. Randall and Kevin E. Randall of Grand Rapids, Mich. Ms. Randall’s father is the head of underwriting and strategic execution at Farmers Insurance in Grand Rapids.The couple met in June 2015 while celebrating during the Capital Pride festivities in Washington. Ms. Dean and Ms. Randall proposed to each other on the same day; in fact, Ms. Dean’s proposal inadvertently superseded Ms. Randall’s proposal.Stephanie Cristina Formas and Stephen Thomas Carter were married Dec. 31. Jenny A. Durkan, who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated at the Brake and Clutch Warehouse, an events space in Dallas.Ms. Formas, 32, is the chief of staff for Ms. Durkan, who is the mayor of Seattle. The bride graduated from Baylor University.She is the daughter of Patty Huber Formas of Waco, Tex.Mr. Carter, 33, is a senior communications manager at Microsoft in Redmond, Wash. He graduated from Whitman College, which is in Walla Walla, Wash.He is a son of Gail Viseltear Carter of Virginia Beach and Donald F. Carter of Seattle.The couple met and began dating in 2012 while working in Washington, both as regional press secretaries, for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.Maura Carey Whang and Deegan Ross McClung were married Jan. 5 at the Marigny Opera House, an arts and events space in New Orleans. Paola J. Martinez, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated.Ms. Whang, 36, is a candidate for a master’s degree in historic preservation at Columbia. She graduated from Middlebury College and received a master’s degree in architecture from City College.She is the daughter of Eileen McCoy Whang and KyuJung Whang of Princeton, N.J. The bride’s father is the vice president for facilities at Princeton University. Her mother retired as the work-life consultant in the human resources department at Cornell.Mr. McClung, 42, is the executive chef at Sadelle’s, a New York restaurant.He is a son of Barbara Ross McClung and Daniel F. McClung of New Orleans. The groom’s father retired as the senior partner at Campaign Strategies, a Houston consultancy for Democratic candidates for national political office.The groom’s previous marriage ended in divorce.The couple met in 2011 at the Momofuku Noodle Bar in the East Village, where she was a hostess, when he came in to see one of her colleagues. Several months later, they had their first meaningful interaction at an East Village bar, when she recognized him as the well-remembered friend-of-a-friend and struck up a conversation with him.Elizabeth Emery Rothman and Lee Miller Taglin were married Dec. 31 at the home of the bride’s parents in Los Angeles. Oona L. Curley, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.The couple met during a musical theater workshop while at Brown, from which both graduated.Ms. Rothman, 29, is the director for new play development at Manhattan Theater Club, a Broadway and Off Broadway producer in Manhattan whose show “Cost of Living” was awarded the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for drama.She is a daughter of Jessica Harper and Thomas E. Rothman. The bride’s father is the chairman of the Sony Pictures Entertainment Motion Picture Group in Los Angeles. Her mother is an actor who has had starring roles in “Suspiria,” “My Favorite Year,” “Stardust Memories,” “Pennies from Heaven” and other films. She is also a singer and songwriter and the author of “The Crabby Cook Cookbook” (Workman Publishing, 2010).Mr. Taglin, 30, is the manager for international strategy and production at Disney Theatrical Productions, a division of the Walt Disney Company in Manhattan.He is the son of Sarah Miller and Robert Taglin of Locust Valley, N.Y. The groom’s mother is the vice president for public affairs and education at Planned Parenthood of Nassau County in Hempstead, N.Y. His father retired as a credit-card consultant at the Auriemma Consulting Group in New York, and now facilitates musical programs for older adults and those with Alzheimer’s at the Samuel Field Y in Little Neck, Queens.GraceAnn Caramico and Alfonse Robert Muglia were married Jan. 5. The Rev. David C. Santos performed the ceremony at St. Bartholomew the Apostle Roman Catholic Church in Scotch Plains, N.J., where he is the associate pastor.The couple met while studying at Georgetown, from which each received a law degree.Mrs. Muglia, 27, is an associate at Kasowitz Benson Torres, a law firm in New York. She graduated magna cum laude from N.Y.U.She is a daughter of Joan M. Caramico and Michael J. Caramico of Scotch Plains. The bride’s father is a vice president and the tax director at Nasdaq, the stock exchange in New York.Mr. Muglia, 26, is an associate at Riker Danzig Scherer Hyland & Perretti, a law firm in Morristown, N.J. He graduated with honors from Cornell.The groom is the son of Denise E. Muglia and Alfonse P. Muglia of South Plainfield, N.J. The groom’s mother is the finance director at Integrity House, a Newark-based addiction treatment center. His father is a construction manager at the Atlantic Realty Development Corporation, a residential real estate developer in Woodbridge, N.J.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.From Apple to Nvidia, tech companies say that business is slowing. What’s happening?Big tech companies are reporting lackluster results. Weak Chinese consumer demand blew a $9 billion hole in Apple’s latest quarterly sales. Nvidia warned last month that its revenue would come in 20 percent below expectations. Intel’s January financials didn’t meet forecasts. And Samsung’s sales plunged 10 percent in the fourth quarter.Behind the trend: semiconductors. “China, smartphones, Bitcoin and cloud computing have been among the major drivers of the long tech boom, which in turn has powered the global economy for the last decade. The ingredient common to all of these sectors is computer chips, which form the brains of devices and whose ubiquity means they provide early signals about changes in supply and demand,” write David Streitfeld and Don Clark of the NYT. With chip manufacturers predicting slumping sales for 2019, tech more generally could be in line for a slowdown.Sound familiar? “The notion that a chip dip could lead to a general downturn evokes memories of 2000, when one day tech had an unlimited future and the next it was crashing in what became known as the dot-com bust,” write Mr. Streitfeld and Mr. Clark.And the industry no longer carries the stock market. For years, stock market performance have been tied to the fortunes of the largest tech companies: Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Netflix. As the S&P 500 pushed to a record high last summer, rises in those six companies’ share prices accounted for half of its gain. But when the index rallied nearly 8 percent in January, Stephen Grocer writes, their stocks accounted for just 17 percent of the rise.The former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. — as well as his successor, David Solomon, and other top executives — may have to give back some compensation from 2018, depending on the findings of an investigation into the firm’s work with the scandal-ridden Malaysian investment fund 1MDB.The announcement, made in a regulatory filing on Friday, shows how seriously Goldman is treating any role it may have had in fraud committed at 1MDB. Prosecutors in the U.S. and Malaysia are leading criminal investigations into 1MDB, and a former top deal maker at the firm has pleaded guilty to bribery, conspiracy and money laundering charges. Goldman says it’s cooperating with authorities.The WSJ calculates that Mr. Blankfein, who stepped down as chief executive of Goldman last year, might lose millions. And though Mr. Solomon wasn’t a top-ranking Goldman executive at the time, he could see some of his $23 million pay for last year clawed back as well. (Gary Cohn, who was Goldman’s No. 2 during the 1MDB work and received a lump payout when he left the firm in 2017, wouldn’t be affected.)In lighter Goldman news: Mr. Solomon, whose side hustle is DJing as DJ D-Sol, has released his second single, “Feel Alive.”For two decades, Deutsche Bank was the only major lender to give Donald Trump money, helping him finance his real estate operations. But when he sought a loan in early 2016 to help pay for a Scottish golf course — all while running for president — the German lender said no.More from David Enrich, Jesse Drucker and Ben Protess of the NYT:Senior officials at the bank, including its future chief executive, believed that Mr. Trump’s divisive candidacy made such a loan too risky, the people said. Among their concerns was that if Mr. Trump won the election and then defaulted, Deutsche Bank would have to choose between not collecting on the debt or seizing the assets of the president of the United States.What’s next: Expect House Democrats to include this in their investigation of Mr. Trump’s finances.More Deutsche Bank news: The lender reportedly scrambled to rid itself of a $600 million loan made to VTB, a Russian state-owned bank, in late 2016 as the German bank sought to reduce its exposure to Russian entities.The automaker Nissan confirmed yesterday that it had abandoned plans to build its new X-Trail sport utility vehicle in Britain and said that the car would be produced solely in Japan. It’s a blow for the British economy, and a clear signal that uncertainty over Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. is weighing on corporate minds.A clear culprit. “The continued uncertainty around the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U. is not helping companies like ours to plan for the future,” Nissan’s Europe chairman, Gianluca de Ficchy, said in a statement. Greg Clark, Britain’s business secretary, told the FT that it was “a warning sign” about how much damage could be caused by a no-deal Brexit.Nissan is not alone. British C.F.O.s say that Brexit is currently the largest threat to their businesses. Some 78 percent of those surveyed said that the business environment in the nation would deteriorate if Britain left the E.U.What now? Prime Minister Theresa May is set to return to Brussels in the coming days in an attempt to redraft her Brexit deal. In the meantime, Bloomberg reports that she “will launch a new government working group intended to unite the feuding pro- and anti-Brexit factions” in her party.The U.S. is now the top oil producer in the world, able to sway petroleum prices and breezily sanction Iran and Venezuela. The reason, as Cliff Krauss of the NYT notes: the Permian Basin, the heart of America’s shale industry.How big is it? It covers the same area as South Dakota, and produces four million barrels of oil a day — making it a bigger generator of oil than any member of OPEC other than Iraq and Saudi Arabia.What makes it special? It’s huge and rich in oil rather than in less-valuable natural gas. And it’s close to refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.What could go wrong? Oil companies there might pump too much, drawing ire from OPEC. As Scott Sheffield, the chairman of Pioneer Natural Resources, told the NYT: “You could have another price war.” And U.S. sanctions on Venezuelan crude could hurt American refineries, which can’t rely solely on the Permian.Axios has published almost three months of President Trump’s schedules after they were leaked, reportedly by somebody in the White House. Some highlights:• “Trump has spent around 60 percent of his scheduled time over the past three months in unstructured ‘Executive Time.’ ”• “He spends his mornings in the residence, watching TV, reading the papers, and responding to what he sees and reads by phoning aides, members of Congress, friends, administration officials and informal advisers,” six people with direct knowledge of his schedule told Axios.• “Trump’s first meeting of the day — usually around 11 or 11:30 a.m. — is often an intelligence briefing or a 30-minute meeting with the chief of staff.”• “The president sometimes has meetings during Executive Time that he doesn’t want most West Wing staff to know about for fear of leaks. And his mornings sometimes include calls with heads of state, political meetings and meetings with counsel in the residence, which aren’t captured on these schedules.”Bonus: Axios also compared the schedules with those of Mr. Trump’s predecessors. He appears to share most in common with Bill Clinton’s early days in office.O.K., so the game itself may have been a slog to watch, and the halftime show was forgettable. But for those of you who came for the ads, here are the themes that dominated — to the tune of $5.2 million per 30 seconds of airtime.The ’90s: Stella Artois featured Carrie Bradshaw from “Sex and the City” and the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Doritos put the Backstreet Boys front and center.Social consciousness: The dating app Bumble hired Serena Williams to urge women to “make the first move” in all parts of their lives. And Budweiser touted renewable energy in an ad featuring a cute dog.The downsides of tech: Olay’s spot showed the actress Sarah Michelle Gellar struggling to save herself from a home intruder when her phone’s facial-recognition software fails. An ad for Pringles featured a smart speaker bemoaning its existence. And TurboTax built an ad around a robot boy craving a late-night snack.Apple reportedly removed Bill Stasior as the head of its Siri virtual assistant unit, though he remains at the company.Gianni Infantino is poised to win a second term as president of FIFA, soccer’s global governing body.SoftBank of Japan hired Sarah Lubman, most recently a partner at the Brunswick Group, as a partner in corporate communications.Deals• Spotify is said to be in talks to buy the podcasting company Gimlet Media. (NYT)• The drug companies Bristol-Myers Squibb and Celgene will pay about $304 million in fees to their investment banks for arranging their $74 billion union. (FT)• KKR is said to be weighing a sale of the chip-making equipment unit of Hitachi Kokusai. (FT)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund is in talks to invest up to $1.5 billion in Guazi.com, a Chinese used-car sales platform. (Reuters)• Maoyan Entertainment, a Chinese movie-ticket giant, fell 2.7 percent in its Hong Kong stock debut on Monday, the latest flubbed I.P.O. by a Chinese tech company. (Reuters)Politics and policy• The senators Chuck Schumer and Bernie Sanders have proposed limiting corporate stock buybacks. (NYT Op-Ed)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, reintroduced legislation aimed at strengthening enforcement of antitrust laws. (Reuters)• Michael Bloomberg is said to be reconsidering running for president as Democratic primary voters appear to be favoring more liberal contenders. (Axios)• President Trump declined to commit to making public any final report by the special prosecutor Robert Mueller. (NYT)Trade• Chinese state-owned firms bought a million tons of American soybeans on Friday, a day after talks on a trade deal between Beijing and Washington yielded progress. (NYT)• Despite a possible U.S.-China agreement, global trade continues to suffer. (WSJ)• European investment funds are worried about their ability to trade dual-listed stocks like those of Unilever and Shell if Britain leaves the E.U. without a deal. (FT)Tech• Venture capitalists are telling start-ups to stockpile cash ahead of a potential economic slowdown. (FT)• Meet the man behind the egg picture that became Instagram’s most-liked image. Surprise: He works in advertising. (NYT)• Cisco wants a U.S. version of Europe’s strict new data privacy rules. (FT)• How lawmakers plan to update tech in Congress — including its 2000-era internet connections. (WSJ)• Foxconn said it was still committed to building a factory in Wisconsin. (NYT)• It’s not just you: Captchas — which you complete to prove you’re not a robot — have gotten far harder. (Verge)Best of the rest• Vice Media plans to lay off 250 workers. Here’s what went wrong for the company and for other digital news organizations like BuzzFeed. (FT, NYT)• McKinsey advised the maker of OxyContin on how to “turbocharge” opioid sales, a lawsuit alleges. (NYT)• Why taxing the wealthy is so hard. (NYT)• Gains from President Trump’s corporate tax cuts aren’t as impressive as they first appeared. (WSJ)• How China got MSCI to add its market to one of the world’s best-known global benchmarks. (WSJ)• Ikea plans to test furniture leasing. (FT)• Hershey blames manufacturing processes for missing tips on its Kisses. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Sapna MaheshwariSuper Bowl Sunday is the day when the advertising industry is not only tolerated but celebrated. And as in years past, brands paid millions of dollars this year for the opportunity to make consumers laugh, cry and reach for their wallets.The advertisers for Super Bowl LIII seemed determined to steer clear of controversy for a second year after politically tinged spots stole the show in 2017.Instead, they offered commercials that championed women, looked to the future and also inspired nostalgia for the ’90s — accompanied, of course, by a parade of celebrities. Cameos included Serena Williams, Jason Bateman, Cardi B and the Backstreet Boys. There was a surprise mash-up between Bud Light and HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” and Burger King relied on vintage footage of Andy Warhol eating a Whopper for its Super Bowl moment.[Follow along with live updates and analysis from Mercedes-Benz Stadium.]“It seems like there’s an awful lot of humor and light appeals, and that for advertisers it’s somewhat of a play-it-safe year,” said Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business. “We’re not hearing about anything crossing over in politics.”Wendy Clark, the chief executive of the agency DDB Worldwide, said that it was hard for ads to break through during a quiet game, describing the array as something of a “mishmash.”“I kind of look at some of these and think, some of them are just fine ads — I’m just not sure they’re Super Bowl ads,” Ms. Clark said. “People have perhaps forgotten that yes, you’ve got all these eyes and attention, but there is still competition for people being around you and talking to you and food and drink and the game itself.”The talk about trouble for the TV business has never extended to the Super Bowl, where the average cost of a 30-second spot climbed to a cool $5.2 million last year, according to Kantar Media. It is roughly the same this year. That figure rose by 96 percent in the previous decade, while the average rate for other prime-time ads fell by 12 percent, according to the firm. More than 100 million people were expected to watch the CBS telecast.Bud Light ran two spots that got people talking, both featuring its medieval cast of characters.One began with a joust and allowed “Game of Thrones” characters, including a dragon, to hijack the spot, ultimately advertising both Bud Light and the final season of the much-loved HBO show, which starts on April 14. (Ultimately, fans might be thirstier for the show than the beer.) The spot tapped into the same show enthusiasm that Doritos harnessed last year with an ad that featured Morgan Freeman and Peter Dinklage.“If you look at Bud Light, they’ve been in this medieval world, so it’s smart on their part to try to get at the love of ‘Game of Thrones,’” said Liz Taylor, chief creative officer of the agency FCB’s Chicago office. But it’s an uncommon type of collaboration, she said.Ms. Clark of DDB said, “No one saw that coming as a ‘Game of Thrones’ ad, and I thought it was a fantastic and very brave pair-up.”The agency Droga5, which collaborated with Bud Light’s agency, Wieden+Kennedy, said that more than 25 people from the show’s crew worked on the ad. That included David Nutter, who has directed several of notable “Game of Thrones” episodes. The agencies sought to mimic the unexpected twists from the show by killing off the Bud Knight.Chris Spadaccini, HBO’s head of marketing, said the network was looking for a “partner that would be willing to make a bold sacrifice ‘for the throne.’”Earlier, Bud Light ran a commercial that showed its characters receiving a shipment of corn syrup, supposedly meant for either Miller Lite or Coors Light. MillerCoors quickly responded, saying that none of its products contain “any high fructose corn syrup” and that a number of Anheuser-Busch items do. The National Corn Growers Association also expressed disappointment with the company on Twitter.“It was interesting they went for a broad brand play there and actually attacked their competitors,” said Jon Haber, co-founder of the ad agency Giant Spoon. “They did it in a funny and cute way.” The aim seemed to be to “put that little seed of doubt in there” for consumers in stores, who are deciding between the three brands, he said.“Pepsi and Coke have done it to each other for years,” Mr. Haber said of the jab. “It’s a tried-and-true tradition.”TurboTax ran a spot featuring a disconcerting character named “RoboChild,” who was told that he could not work at the company when he grew up. Walmart showed an array of futuristic cars from movies and TV shows to promote online ordering and pickup. Ads for Mercedes and Pringles used voice assistants, and robots appeared in an ad for Michelob Ultra.“It’s finally the Super Bowl where the message is more about the future than anything else,” said Mr. Haber of Giant Spoon. “Everyone’s showing their digital transformation capabilities.”Ms. Taylor of FCB said, “That’s kind of the cultural moment that people are tapping into — A.I. and robots and tech.”Derek Rucker, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management, said that as advertisers played it safe regarding political messages, they seemed to be relying on technology as a way to safely incorporate modern culture into their commercials.“That theme is very present — I can’t remember a Super Bowl that did it at this level,” he said. “That could go hand-in-hand — where people want to be creative but don’t want to be in any dangerous territory.”Ms. Taylor was left feeling slightly underwhelmed.“Last year, the ads were really fun and took the pulse of the country and brands used their media time to bring a sense of hope and inspiration,” she said. “That’s what I’m missing so far.”Microsoft aired a tear-jerker in the second half, with a spot that showcased a group of children with physical limitations talking about how they love gaming, and are able to play video games through Xbox adaptive controllers. “No matter how your body is, or how fast you are, you can play,” one of the boys said in an online version of the spot.Tech giants loomed large. That includes Amazon, which had a Super Bowl ad for the fourth time.Amazon showed a trailer for a new show called “Hanna” on its Prime streaming service and another ad for its Alexa devices. The latter included celebrities like Harrison Ford, Forest Whitaker and the “Broad City” stars Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson.Amazon, which ran its first Super Bowl ad in 2016, has become a big presence as its overall marketing spending has increased. Last year, the company was one of the game’s five biggest advertisers for the first time, according to Kantar, on a list that included Anheuser-Busch, Fiat Chrysler, Toyota and Procter & Gamble.Last year, Amazon raised its ad spending in the United States by about 73 percent, Kantar said, outspending companies like General Motors, Verizon and L’Oréal.“Their presence makes a lot of sense to me,” Professor Rucker said. “Their target is probably a massive portion of everyone watching.”On a somewhat related note, The Washington Post made a last-minute decision to run a spot — a first for the newspaper. The ad, which ran in the fourth quarter and was narrated by Tom Hanks, highlighted “reporters’ work and the importance of press freedom,” Fred Ryan, the newspaper’s publisher, said in a statement.It showed images of journalists from several news organizations, including CNN and Fox News, and referred to the death of Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi dissident journalist who wrote for the newspaper before he was killed in October. It closed with the paper’s motto, “Democracy Dies in Darkness.” The Post is owned by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive.Did you love “I Know What You Did Last Summer”? How about the Backstreet Boys? “Sex and the City”?Who knew a night of football could bring all of that back!The Backstreet Boys — whose oldest member is only a few years away from 50 — joined Chance the Rapper for a Doritos commercial that remixed the group’s song “I Want It That Way.” Sarah Jessica Parker took a turn as the cocktail-loving Carrie Bradshaw in an ad for Stella Artois, which also featured Jeff Bridges as the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Sarah Michelle Gellar appeared in a spot that reprised “I Know What You Did Last Summer” to sell Olay skin cream. And the actress Christina Applegate, known for the sitcom “Married With Children,” appeared in an ad for M&Ms.“There’s a lot of cross-generational appeal with the Backstreet Boys,” said Jennifer Saenz, chief marketing officer of Frito-Lay North America, which is owned by PepsiCo. “They were relevant a decade ago and still relevant today.”In the Super Bowl host city, Pepsi erected billboards and put out recycling bins while “trying to paint Atlanta blue,” according to Greg Lyons, chief marketing officer of Pepsi’s North American beverage unit. The city is home to Coca-Cola, but Pepsi’s signage sought to remind people that its brand was the “official soft drink of Super Bowl LIII.”Bumble, the dating app that requires women to message potential matches first, ran its first Super Bowl ad, which featured the tennis star Serena Williams urging women to “make the first move” in all areas of their lives. Toyota’s commercial chronicled the unexpected path of a football player named Antoinette Harris, and compared her journey to one of its vehicles, which it said “will shatter perceptions.”“The female empowerment theme this year is very real,” Professor Taylor said. “That doesn’t mean it’s overwhelming — there’s still more ads with male lead characters and still more male celebrities — but I think it’s narrowed a little bit.”“I haven’t seen any ads that objectify women, which is awesome,” said Margaret Johnson, chief creative officer of the agency Goodby Silverstein & Partners.“Over all, the gap is narrowing,” she said. “We’re moving in the right direction.”Advertisers largely seemed to be avoiding anything remotely controversial — perhaps seeking to learn from years past.Last year, Ram trucks faced criticism  after it used a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as the voice-over for its Super Bowl ad. The timing didn’t help, considering one story line last season was about N.F.L. players who sat or knelt during the national anthem to draw attention to racial oppression and police brutality against black Americans.Two years ago, after the presidential election, Airbnb and 84 Lumber ran spots that were viewed as responses to President Trump’s stance on immigration.This year, advertisers sought to tie themselves to social causes. Budweiser, for example, highlighted its efforts in renewable energy in a spot that featured a charming dog, the beverage company’s Clydesdales and the Bob Dylan song “Blowin’ in the Wind.” And Verizon, for a second year, put a spotlight on emergency workers.One brand appeared to seek attention by creating an ad it claimed was too racy for CBS — a tried-and-true strategy for many previous advertisers. Devour, a maker of frozen meals, riffed on the concept of “food porn” for its spot, with a girlfriend discussing her boyfriend’s addiction to tantalizing footage of frozen food. Ultimately, Devour released a more saucy version of its ad online and one that was deemed appropriate for television.Still, the family-approved version may lead to some questions from the children in the room.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.In a sharp reversal of the stance it took just week ago, the Fed’s chairman, Jerome Powell, said yesterday it had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum.The news: The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, would stay put for some time.The reaction: Mr. Powell’s comments soothed Wall Street, sending stocks higher, something President Trump cheered on Twitter. But the U-turn puzzled some investors and one warned of a slowing economy.More: In a separate statement, the Fed signaled that it might reduce “quantitative tightening,” the policy of selling its bond portfolio, which could be a challenge for Mr. Powell. Here’s a guide to what’s going on.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Advertisers pay for space expecting to reach potential spenders.Facebook, which says it has access to 2.32 billion people, seems like a prime avenue of exposure. But how many are spammers, scammers or flat-out fakes? Jack Nicas, who explored the social media network’s fluctuating, confusing account estimates, reckons even Facebook may not be sure.Yesterday, the company said in tiny lettering at the bottom of a slide about its earnings that it believes that there are 116 million fake accounts on its site, a 36 percent increase from 2017’s figure, which was itself 359 percent higher than the number disclosed in 2016. Its estimated number of duplicates rose 20 percent year over year, to 255 million.How many unauthorized accounts does Facebook take down each quarter? Enough to encompass as much of 35 percent of the network’s active users, data suggests. And some analysts suspect that the company’s user counts involve more guesswork than it lets on.But the money keeps coming in: Facebook emerged from a string of privacy scandals last year with a 30 percent boost in revenue and a 61 percent upswing in profit. Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, confirmed that Facebook plans to integrate the technical infrastructure of its WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger apps by the end of the year or by early 2020.A bot scandal reaches a conclusion: The attorney general of New York reached a settlement with Devumi, a company that sold hundreds of millions of fake followers on Twitter and other platforms before going out of business last year.Is Apple’s Tim Cook Facebook’s privacy watchdog? After determining that the social network had violated the rules of an Apple developer program, Mr. Cook moved to block access. Our columnist Kevin Roose wonders whether Mr. Cook is becoming a technology regulator of last resort.The Arctic air mass sweeping across the Midwest and the Northeast brought a deep and sometimes deadly chill that caused traffic to snarl and the ground to crack.It is so cold that shops have closed, restaurants have shuttered and petting farm owners are struggling. Any lasting effect on commerce should be slight, however.It is so cold that, in Wisconsin, beer distributors stopped truck deliveries out of fear that their cargo would freeze solid. Amtrak canceled trains. Six in ten flights into and out of Chicago were canceled. Airlines have waived fees for changing flights. One towing company in Michigan received 40 calls for help in three hours.It is so cold that all of Cargill’s grain plants in the Midwest are closed, some shifts at a Tyson Foods pork plant in Iowa have been canceled and the hog slaughter has paused at a Hormel Foods facility in Minnesota.It is so cold that Disney on Ice has called off a performance in Chicago.It is so cold that General Motors has suspended production at several plants in Michigan because of an emergency appeal by the local utility, overwhelmed with heating demand.It is so cold that Republicans and Democrats are reaching across the aisle in Washington so they can huddle together for warmth. Just kidding.Facebook had company from other tech firms when reporting its earnings yesterday.Nokia, which now focuses on telecom equipment, warned that it would have a slow start to 2019, though it expects more business from companies building 5G mobile networks later in the year. Samsung, whose operating profit plunged 29 percent amid a decline in demand for memory chips, also said earnings this year might struggle. PayPal disappointed analysts, too, even as its revenue rose.But Qualcomm beat Wall Street expectations and issued a forecast that assuaged some concerns about a weak smartphone market in China. Other companies also had good news.Microsoft, often considered an indicator of the broader market, said that its commercial and consumer businesses were doing well, with revenue and profit increasing more than 10 percent from a year earlier. Its continued shift to cloud computing has placed it within striking distance of Amazon, which leads the field.Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce business, said that its earnings growth sank last quarter and that its revenue, which rose 41 percent, had increased at its slowest pace since early 2016. Executives said that, while “the slowdown of macro might cause concerns in the market,” the company had minimal exposure to the trade war with Washington and e-commerce was healthier than the overall Chinese economy.Tesla, the electric carmaker, reported its second straight quarterly profit, but said that its $139 million in fourth quarter earnings was less than what it brought in during the third quarter. The company expects to deliver as many as 400,000 cars this year, up from 245,000 last year. And it said it had $3.7 billion in cash to carry it through a $920 million bond payment in March.Foxconn, the Taiwanese electronics behemoth, is rethinking its plan to build a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin with 13,000 jobs, a proposal that was hailed by President Trump. It’s now considering a shift toward research, underscoring the difficult economics of manufacturing in the United States, write the NYT’s Natalie Kitroeff, Patricia Cohen and Monica Davey:That turn runs counter to Mr. Trump’s vision for the project, which he had cited as a milestone in reversing the decline in factory jobs. The twist also brought new friction in Wisconsin, where the initiative has been politically fraught from the start because of its billions of dollars in tax subsidies.Foxconn said that it remained committed to creating 13,000 jobs, but economists questioned how such a large work force could be created if the plant’s focus was on other areas.A lack of clarity over the terms of Britain’s looming departure from the European Union has British businesses stockpiling products and delaying investments, writes the NYT’s Peter Goodman.The options: Parliament may yet approve Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular exit deal — she survived a critical vote on Tuesday that could have derailed it — especially if the alternative is a tumultuous no-deal departure.The reaction: Companies must plan for outcomes both wildly unknown and potentially damaging. They are making backup plans while having no idea how it will end.The cost: By one estimate, the British economy is already 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters had backed E.U. membership in a 2016 referendum. The main culprit is uncertainty. Investment in the auto industry plunged last year. The cost of separation is apparent in finance, housing and other areas, too. Food retailers have warned of delays and shortages.More European news: Two engines of the eurozone economy, France and Germany, are cooling, a trend that threatens to deepen the pain across the Continent. Italy fell into a recession in the last quarter of 2018 after its economy shrank by 0.2 percent.Zach Kirkhorn will become Tesla’s chief financial officer after Deepak Ahuja retires. (Bloomberg)Deals • General Electric said it would merge its battery storage and electrical grid units into its wind turbine and hydropower business, and suitors are gathering for the jet leasing unit of its lending business, GE Capital. (Reuters, WSJ)• United Natural Foods accused Goldman Sachs of improperly extracting more than $200 million while advising it on its acquisition of the grocery chain Supervalu. (WSJ)• Elliott Management, an activist hedge fund, is making a push into full-blown takeovers. (WSJ)Tech • Apple is said to be planning a more powerful 3-D camera for iPhones, to help with augmented reality plans. (Bloomberg)• Lyft sued New York State over its minimum wage for drivers. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, approves of higher taxes for the rich, if the revenue is spent in a way that he considers wise. (Bloomberg)• President Trump called top intelligence officials who had contradicted him “naïve.” (NYT)• Starting in April, 5,340 more immigrants with an advanced degree from an American university may be selected for a coveted visa. (WSJ)• Lawmakers introduced legislation to limit Mr. Trump’s power to impose import tariffs. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Muslims have petitioned Nike to recall its Air Max 270 shoes, which are said to feature a design on the sole that resembles “Allah” in Arabic script. (Bloomberg)• Nearly 30 percent of company directors in Australia are women, up from 19.4 percent in 2015, leapfrogging the U.S., Britain and Canada in female representation in the boardroom. (FT)• More than $4 billion was paid out over the past decade to members of the Sackler family, which owns the drugmaker Purdue Pharma, even as sales of the opioid painkiller OxyContin waned, according to court documents. (WSJ)• Beer companies, casinos and other corporations are funneling record amounts into the U.S. wind and solar power industry, taking advantage of plunging costs, favorable tax breaks and a public relations boost. (WSJ)• Hedge funds are displaying levels of risk aversion that would be expected after a financial crisis. (Bloomberg)• Former U.S. intelligence operatives helped the United Arab Emirates spy on its enemies using technological techniques taught by the federal government. The secret operation was known as Project Raven. (Reuters)• It’s an election year in India. Gold consumption is likely to increase. (Bloomberg)• Sri Lanka’s constitutional crisis — in which the president and prime minister have faced off — has forced it to borrow heavily from China. (WSJ)• Phillips, a boutique auction house, sold $916.5 million of art and collectibles last year, the most in its 220-year history. A 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso fetched $57.8 million; a Rolex watch known as “The Unicorn” sold for $5.9 million. (Bloomberg)• A breakdown of the Super Bowl ad market, with a look at the beer company that spends the most. (WSJ)• Chinese consumers and their desire for handbags, Hennessy and other luxury products from LVMH helped add $4.3 billion to its chief executive Bernard Arnault’s fortune. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.The next generation of computer and phone networks, known as 5G, is expected to connect cities around the world and fuel a future run on robots, autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence and other technologies.But it may also rely on an infrastructure vulnerable to hackers and spies, one that the U.S. wants to stop China from building.The Trump administration has conducted a campaign to pressure allies such as Britain, Poland and Germany to banish Chinese companies, especially the telecommunications giant Huawei, from participating in the 5G buildup, according to the NYT:The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race — one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to America’s national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.What’s next? President Trump is expected to issue an executive order prohibiting American companies from incorporating equipment originating from China in critical telecommunications networks, extending current rules that apply only to government entities. His administration, which has also waged a trade war with China, says that it is motivated by concern for national security, not just by competitive defensiveness. China’s economic czar, Liu He, will meet with the American trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, in Washington on Wednesday for two days of trade talks, which is likely to cover issues of cyberprotection and the proliferation of state-owned companies.What do officials think? Beijing’s ambassador to the E.U. threatened “serious consequences” if Huawei and other Chinese companies were excluded from 5G projects. In Canada, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau fired the country’s ambassador to China after he said that a senior Huawei executive had “strong arguments” to fight extradition to the U.S.And businesses? Tech manufacturers are diversifying outside China as trade tensions fester and the country’s economy slows. Foxconn and Pegatron, two Taiwanese companies that assemble iPhones, are expanding production capacity in India and Vietnam. American industrial companies with exposure to China have said that their sales there are weakening. But Apple is unlikely to bring production closer to the U.S., where manufacturers struggle to “match China’s combination of scale, skills, infrastructure and cost,” according to the NYT.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The law firm Paul, Weiss is more diverse at its top ranks than most of its peers. But after the announcement of its new partner class, people across the industry began to comment that all of the faces were white, and that only one was a woman’s, the NYT’s Noam Scheiber and John Eligon write.Paul, Weiss has said that it regretted the “gender and racial imbalance” of its 2019 class. But the episode underscores how big law firms are still falling short when it comes to elevating women and people of color.Mr. Scheiber and Mr. Eligon interviewed more than 20 women and people of color who described obstacles to achieving diversity at Paul, Weiss. Many said that opportunities to be groomed for partner were harder to come by for women and minorities.“I fear that African-American partners in big law are becoming an endangered species,” said Theodore Wells, a black partner at Paul, Weiss and one of the country’s most prominent litigators.The former chief executive of Starbucks told Andrew yesterday that he was preparing to run for president in 2020 as an independent.Denouncing the “broken political system,” Mr. Schultz said he had already begun the groundwork to get on the ballot in all 50 states.Long-shot bid: Despite his considerable wealth, Mr. Schultz would face a difficult road. Few independent candidates have mounted significant challenges for the White House.Political jabs: In an interview with “60 Minutes,” Mr. Schultz said Donald Trump was “not qualified to be the president” and that lawmakers from both parties were engaged in “revenge politics.”Swift response: The announcement was condemned by top Democratic operatives, who said they were worried that Mr. Schultz would split votes in a general election.Logan Green, the chief executive of Lyft, is known to be reserved, usually letting his second-in-command speak for their ride-sharing service. But now, he’s in a race with Uber to take the companies public, write the NYT’s Mike Isaac and Kate Conger.That means Mr. Green may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role.The back story: Both Lyft and Uber have filed regulatory papers to list their shares on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings are likely to create a bonanza in Silicon Valley.Why it matters: Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.Stocks sank at the end of last year on fears of an imminent recession, but those concerns have largely abated, with global markets now rallying at the fastest pace in months. But investors are still cautious ahead of a busy week.The next few days bring an onslaught of quarterly earnings reports from the likes of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Tesla — many of which are considered to be representative of the broader economy. The Federal Reserve is also holding policy meetings this week, which come after central banks in Europe and Japan sounded cautious notes. And on Friday, the monthly U.S. jobs report will be released.The world economy “is not in crisis,” writes Neil Irwin. But, he adds:What the last few months have made clear is that the forces that have held back the global economy for the last 11 years are not temporary, and have not gone away. And that, in turn, makes the world uncommonly vulnerable to a bout of bad luck or bad policy.The work force is still aging. Productivity growth remains weak, as is consumer demand. Low interest rates could constrain central bankers trying to engineer an escape from a downturn. And a “nasty feedback loop” could result in more political dysfunction, leading to risks of economic disruption like the type posed by the recent government shutdown.Speaking of which: After a 35-day stalemate, the government is open again, much to the chagrin of some of President Trump’s conservative supporters. The 116th Congress will consider Democratic wage proposals in the house and a Middle East policy bill in the Senate. Lawmakers may also consider whether to ban future shutdowns entirely. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees heading back to work should receive back pay by the end of the week.Yi Huiman, the chairman of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, will take over from Liu Shiyu as the party secretary and chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission. (Reuters)Lance Milken, son of Michael Milken, has left the private equity group Apollo Global Managemen to set up a family office. (FT)Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer outside China, said Jean-Pierre Thomas had resigned as its chairman and director as part of a deal with the U.S. government to lift sanctions on the company and on other Russian firms linked to the oligarch Oleg Deripaska. (Reuters)Deals• The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federally chartered body, says a $1.7 billion funding gap should sink the efforts of the Sears chairman, Edward Lampert, to buy out the retail chain. The move makes the corporation the latest and most influential creditor to oppose the sale. (WSJ)• The chemical companies Versum Materials and Entegris are in advanced talks to combine into a single entity that makes products used in the semiconductor manufacturing process. (WSJ)• The engineering group Rolls-Royce is leading a consortium of companies that is said to have asked the British government for more than $260 million to build small nuclear reactors. (FT)• Saudi Aramco wants to increase its foothold in Asia’s oil industry by buying up to 19.9 percent of the South Korean refiner Hyundai Oilbank. (Reuters)• The Italian energy company Eni and its Austrian peer OMV will pay $5.8 billion for a stake in the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company’s refining business. (Reuters)Tech• Kik Interactive, a Canadian social-media start-up that sold $100 million in a digital token it called “kin,” plans to fight the S.E.C. over the agency’s regulation of cryptocurrencies. (WSJ)• All aboard the driverless train: American rail-freight operators are turning to automation to make railroads safer and more productive. (WSJ)• The struggles of bike-sharing start-ups lay bare the flaws of VC2C, or venture capital to consumer, a common tech investment strategy in China. In VC2C, companies raise funds, use them to subsidize consumers, and ramp up prices later. (FT)• Retailers have used robots to handle inventory in warehouses. Now, they’re testing whether robots can figure out when store shelves need to be restocked. (WSJ)Politics and policy• A sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of a government shutdown could squeeze taxpayers’ refund checks, and delay them, too. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren is trying to stand out in an increasingly crowded field of presidential candidates by focusing on policy minutiae. But she risks being seen as out-of-touch, too intellectual and offbeat. (NYT)• With less than nine weeks to go until Brexit, British businesses are setting up emergency teams to cope with possible upheaval as they press politicians to agree on an orderly exit plan from the E.U. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Male managers said that they were nervous about mentoring female colleagues in the #MeToo era. (NYT)• The Securities and Exchange Commission is scrutinizing whether Nissan accurately reported executive pay. (NYT)• Signs that the government may move to privatize the mortgage-finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have sent shares soaring. (WSJ)• The Man Group hedge fund cut ties with the Booker Prize, saying it would dedicate donations to improving diversity in financial services instead. (FT)• U.S. manufacturers are taking a hit as Chinese demand for American goods weakens. (WSJ)• Workplace confidentiality rules in New Jersey are being challenged in court. (WSJ)• Qantas Airways customers are requesting exercise bikes and virtual reality devices to pass the time on 20-hour flights from Sydney to London. (Reuters)• Vale, the world’s largest iron ore miner, suspended dividends, buybacks and bonuses after a dam disaster in Brazil. (Reuters)• The two chief executives of Standard Life Aberdeen, Britain’s largest listed fund manager, made a case for joint leadership, a model unpopular with many investors and governance specialists. (FT)• The British supermarket chain Tesco is planning to cut thousands of jobs with the closing of meat, fish and delicatessen counters. (Guardian)• The U.S. Treasury Department is set to borrow $1 trillion for a second year to finance the deficit. (Bloomberg)• The English soccer club Arsenal announced plans to open several themed restaurants in China as part of a marketing push to reach fans there. (FT)• The European Commission is preparing to put Saudi Arabia on a list of countries that have failed to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.This week’s trade negotiations between the U.S. and China will have to bridge a lot of gulfs between the two countries. One particularly tricky issue is that Washington wants Beijing to adopt a policy that would keep the value of China’s currency stable. More on that from Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources:• “While the precise wording remains unresolved, a pledge of yuan stability has been discussed in multiple rounds of talks in recent months and both sides have tentatively agreed it will be part of the framework of any final deal.”• “The Trump administration has been clear in its talks with Beijing that any attempt to depreciate the yuan — a strategy aimed at offsetting existing U.S. duties on Chinese imports — would be met with more or higher American tariffs.”• But currency stability may be at odds with other policies. “A U.S. request for Beijing to keep the yuan from depreciating is also potentially difficult to square with Trump and past U.S. administrations’ calls for China to adopt more market-driven reforms and complaints that Beijing manipulates its currency to gain a trade advantage.”There are other contentious issues. The FT rated the chances of success of several critical issues being discussed this week, from stronger protections of intellectual property rights (likely to happen) to the cessation of hacking (much less likely).And any deal would need enforcement measures. CNBC reports that unidentified officials from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believe a deal would be meaningless if there aren’t mechanisms such as automatic tariff increases to punish China if it fails to keep its promises.But there appears to be less time pressure. President Trump said yesterday that the March 1 deadline for reaching an agreement “is not a magical date,” adding that “a lot of things can happen.”The British prime minister is meeting with European officials today in an attempt to reach a final compromise that would save her Brexit plan. It won’t be easy.Her goal is to revise the deal. “The British government sees May’s meeting on Wednesday with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker as a crucial chance to get legally binding changes” to the agreement, Bloomberg reports.She has dropped some controversial ideas to help her position. The FT reports that the notion of using technology to solve issues surrounding the Irish border — a plan considered unworkable by E.U. officials — has been abandoned.But Europe still isn’t budging. “There isn’t enough movement for me to be able to expect this to be a discussion with a concrete outcome,” Mr. Juncker said yesterday, later adding “I’m losing my time with this Brexit,” according to Bloomberg.More Brexit news: Britain is unlikely to secure trade deals with Japan and South Korea before it exits the E.U. Another lawmaker has left Britain’s opposition Labour Party to join a newly formed independent group. Three Conservative Party lawmakers have also resigned to join the new group. Honda may move some of the British production of its Civic model to the U.S. — and other Japanese automakers may also leave the country.The Vermont senator finally tossed his hat into the 2020 ring yesterday, becoming the latest candidate seeking the Democratic Party nomination. Mr. Sanders quickly became one of the most formidable candidates: He raised more than $4 million from individual donors in just one day and retains a big fan base from his 2016 run.CNBC breaks down how Mr. Sanders would affect the business world should he become president:• His Medicare-for-all concept, introduced in 2017, proposes moving Americans away from private health insurance to a government-provided policy. He has also pressed to cut drug prices.• He has long criticized big banks, and has fought to break up institutions like JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs. Earlier this month, he also teamed up with Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, on legislation to limit companies’ ability to buy back stock.• He wants a higher minimum wage of $15 an hour, and has put pressure on Amazon, Walmart and other companies to follow suit.But there’s a big caveat to his 2020 odds. As Sydney Ember of the NYT notes: “Much of his populist agenda has been embraced by other Democrats, at a time when many voters are eager to elevate female and nonwhite standard bearers.”Talks between state and federal officials on vehicle emissions and fuel economy standards have broken down, Bloomberg reported, citing unnamed sources:• The Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration had been meeting with California’s Air Resources Board to try and compromise on a replacement for Obama-era fuel efficiency standards.• “The breakdown in talks adds to tension between Washington and Sacramento, which has emerged as a major antagonist to the Trump administration.”• “No further discussions are scheduled over the critical auto industry rules, said the people, who asked to not be identified discussing the private talks.”• California is America’s biggest auto market, and as such has set a de facto national standard for auto emissions.The NYT took a deep dive into how President Trump has sought to clamp down on the many investigations that touch upon his presidency over the past two years. Among the incidents the newspaper uncovered:He tried to install a loyalist as head of the Michael Cohen inquiry. “He asked whether Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York and a Trump ally, could be put in charge of the widening investigation, according to several American officials with direct knowledge of the call,” the NYT reports. The acting attorney general at the time, Matthew Whitaker, demurred.He wanted a misleading public statement about Michael Flynn’s resignation. As White House officials discussed how to explain the departure of Mr. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, amid an F.B.I. investigation, the president asked Sean Spicer, then the press secretary, to say he had requested Mr. Flynn’s resignation. When Mr. Spicer asked if that was true, Mr. Trump responded, “Say that I asked for his resignation.”He has sought to discredit the special counsel, Robert Mueller. With the arrival of Rudy Giuliani on his legal team, Mr. Trump “decided to combine a legal strategy with a public relations campaign in an aggressive effort to undermine the credibility of both Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department,” the NYT reports. The result: Polls last summer showed more Americans distrusted Mr. Mueller, prompting Mr. Giuliani to say, “I think we’ve done really well.”The Securities and Exchange Commission unveiled a proposal yesterday that would let all companies — not just certain small ones — confidentially discuss potential I.P.O. plans with investors before committing to the process, the WSJ reports:• “The conversations would allow companies to identify information that is important to investors and to gauge market interest before formally announcing a public offering.”• “Currently, large companies must publicly file their securities offering documents to regulators before gauging investor interest.”• “Making it easier and more appealing for companies to go public has been a central goal of S.E.C. Chairman Jay Clayton. The number of public companies has fallen by nearly 50 percent since the late 1990s.”• But this potential change isn’t as revolutionary as others the S.E.C. has proposed, Anna Pinedo of the law firm Mayer Brown told the WSJ. “It’s not going to single-handedly change if a company was going to decide to go public or not,” she said.The American retail giant is riding high after a banner earnings report yesterday, with its shares up as much as 4 percent in Tuesday trading. Here’s why:• Profits rose 69 percent to $3.69 billion.• Online sales were up 43 percent during the quarter, matching the company’s goal.• Same-store sales in the U.S. were up 4.2 percent in the quarter, above the 3.2 percent that analysts had expected.But Britain’s competition regulator dealt it bad news this morning by essentially blocking the company’s plan to merge its Asda grocery chain with J Sainsbury. The move hinders Walmart’s effort to shed the underperforming business, since it’s unclear how the American retailer can divest it.The U.S. may be on the brink of a recession, but housing is unlikely to be the cause, Conor Dougherty of the NYT writes. Here’s why:• “The housing sector accounts for as little as 3 percent of economic output during recessions and about twice that during booms. Other pieces of the economy are much bigger, but they don’t change nearly as much from boom to bust.”• “The most recent recession, from 2007 to 2009, offered one of the more exaggerated examples of housing’s guiding role in downturns. A recent report from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis found that the construction sector accounted for a little over a third of the decline in output in the past recession.”• “How does housing look now? Mixed, but mixed in such a way that the things most important to economic growth are the most stable.”• “When economists talk about a recession in housing, they largely refer to construction, not home prices,” and “construction is bordering on moribund.”• “In other words: Housing is in recession already. It might not get better soon, but it probably won’t get worse.”President Trump will nominate Jeffrey Rosen as deputy attorney general, replacing Rod Rosenstein.Marc Short, who was President Trump’s legislative director for two years, has become Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff.Lindsay Walters, a White House deputy press secretary, will leave in April to join Edelman, the P.R. firm.CNN hired Sarah Isgur Flores, the Justice Department’s spokeswoman under Jeff Sessions, as a political editor in Washington.Deals• Carl Icahn publicly urged Caesars Entertainment to sell itself. (Reuters)• BlackRock and KKR are reportedly in talks to invest as much as $5 billion in Abu Dhabi’s oil pipeline network. (FT)• PepsiCo agreed to buy Muscle Milk from Hormel for an undisclosed amount, the first acquisition under its new C.E.O. (Bloomberg)• Just Inc., the maker of egg-free mayonnaise, is reportedly seeking $200 million in new funding. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• A majority of Americans back Democratic proposals to raise taxes on the rich. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a system of universal child care, which would be paid for by her plan to increase taxes on the wealthy. (NYT)• The Trump administration wants California to pay back $2.5 billion in federal money spent on the state’s high-speed rail efforts. (NYT)• A federal ethics watchdog refused to certify financial disclosures by the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross. (CNBC)Tech• Microsoft says hackers associated with Russian intelligence tried to breach European think tanks and nonprofit organizations in the run-up to elections in May. (NYT)• Germany is reportedly leaning toward allowing Huawei technology in its wireless networks. A British defense think tank has called the use of the Chinese company’s technology on 5G networks “irresponsible.” (WSJ, FT)• Blockchains were supposed to be unhackable. Maybe they’re not. (MIT Technology Review)• A federal judge delayed a lawsuit about a Pentagon cloud computing contract — that Amazon was expected to win — over “new information” about possible conflicts of interest in the procurement process. (WSJ)• QuadrigaCX customers are trying to hunt down funds currently locked away because they’re secured by a password known only to the company’s late C.E.O. (WSJ)Best of the rest• McKinsey & Company will return $15 million in fees to resolve an investigation into allegations that it did not make required disclosures while working on bankruptcies. (NYT)• Nissan and Renault look set to clash over whether they should share the same new chairman. (FT)• The extradition to the U.S. of Roger Ng, a former Goldman Sachs banker who faces fraud charges over his involvement in the 1MDB scandal, could be delayed. (Bloomberg)• Why HSBC’s bankers should prepare for lower bonuses. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Lacking financial joy? “How to ‘Marie Kondo’ your investment portfolio.” (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byThe New Work Summit, convened earlier this week by The New York Times, featured panel discussions about the opportunities and risks that are emerging as the use of artificial intelligence accelerates across industries. Here are some excerpts. They have been edited and condensed.Sam AltmanCo-founder and chairman of Open AI; president of Y CombinatorOne of the things that surprises me most about sort of the criticism of the tech industry right now is a belief that tech should be the one to decide what you can and can’t say and how these algorithms work. And that, to me, sounds very bad. I think I’m totally cool with, for example, restrictions on free speech where it’s hurting people. And I think we’ve always had, you know, I can’t yell “Fire!” in this room. So there’s always been free speech with an asterisk.But the idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it. And I think we should let our — flawed as they may be — democratically elected and enforced institutions update the rules for the world. The world has changed a lot. Tech has changed the world a lot in a very short time. And it’s going to change it much more.Evan SpiegelCo-founder and chief executive, Snap Inc.For example, just like a newspaper page, there really wasn’t a personalized version of the internet 20 years ago. There was just one page that everyone got — the same Yahoo home page, or something like that. And so this idea that the internet could be personalized by your friends was a huge breakthrough.But this also came with some side effects. Because the content that is distributed by your friends from all over the internet, and that’s voted on by your friends in terms of likes and comments, sometimes that means that — because we’re human beings and we click on things that are outrageous or offensive sometimes — things that are negative actually spread faster and further than things that are positive.And so we very quickly saw media start to change to fit this new distribution mechanism that was based on what your friends were sharing. So I think if we look at the evolution of social media, now people are thinking through sort of the ramifications of a lot of what’s happened as a result of that new wave distributing content. But I certainly think there’s a lot of opportunity to sort of course-correct here.John DonovanChief executive, AT&T CommunicationsWe paused for a period of time before we went into deployment on robotics, process automation, machine learning, to step back and build the Ten Commandments. And we came back with, I think, a view that was a human-centric set of policies.And that is that everything in our business: Every outcome is owned by a human being. No one can say an algorithm did it or a machine did it. So everything that is launched, algorithmically, robotically is owned by a human being. A machine can’t control a machine without a process that’s involved.These are like children, algorithms. If you change jobs you have to turn over to the new person that algorithm. Everything that’s put in has to have a rewind button. We have a Ph.D. in psychology who makes sure that they have a red button they can press when they feel like manipulation is happening in any way, shape, or form.So we put a structure and a process in place to make sure that what we do programmatically, what we do algorithmically, and what we do with a machine doesn’t change the fundamentals of our accountability within the business.Sebastian ThrunChief executive, Kitty HawkI look at A.I. as a tool, very much like a shovel or a kitchen knife. And when it comes to ethics, I think there’s ethical ways to use a kitchen knife, and there’s unethical ways to use a kitchen knife, and they’ve been around forever.What, really, is A.I.? I think that’s what people are somewhat divided on. I think it’s something very, very simple. First of all, we talk about A.I., we talk about machine learning; we don’t talk about real intelligence. And machine learning is an innovation in computers.Computers are dumb. To make computers do the right thing in the past, someone had to write down just an elaborate kitchen recipe of every possible step that the computer should do. And the computer would blindly follow those rules. The innovation in machine learning is that now, instead of giving a computer these rules, you can give it examples.And the computer follows its own rules from those examples. So computer programming has become easier as a result. Children can now program computers by just giving examples. The implications, in my opinion, are groundbreaking for society.Kent WalkerSenior vice president, global affairs, and chief legal officer, GoogleThe tech sector has always had lots of different regulations, from privacy, to copyright, to safe harbors and the like. We’re fans of regulation when it’s smart regulation.And what do I mean by that? So, regulation that starts out with a really crisp definition of what’s the problem you’re trying to solve? That is then narrowly tailored to solve that problem and minimize blowback and side effects. And then third, a thoughtful analysis of how: what the second and third implications of those rules might be.When you apply that to artificial intelligence, I think it’s most likely that we will start with the applications. It’s rare that you regulate basic research, because there’s so much risk of deterring innovation that could be really incredibly productive along the lines that Sebastian was talking about.But as you get into applications — whether it’s financial services, or health care, or agricultural productivity — we already have a thoughtful series of laws and rules around that, and it would be natural to expand those into the issues that are raised by A.I.Deep NisharSenior managing partner, SoftBank Vision FundSo, you start at a national level and say, “What should the new-age curriculum look like?” I started my work career in the heartland of America. It used to be an apprenticeship business. You worked in factories, you got trained by other people who were good at it. Then you got paid more, and you became good at it, and you trained other people behind you.Well, then, companies should be training us to do similar things, and retraining us. My father’s generation, you had one profession, one job. Our generation, you have perhaps one or two professions, multiple jobs. Our children’s generation is going to have multiple professions, multiple jobs. That’s the reality. You know, we can keep fighting that reality, but it’s here to stay.Adena FriedmanPresident and chief executive, NasdaqWe always hired people into skilled positions that they had mastery in, whether it was market structure, or computer science, or whatever it was. And we didn’t really have a whole program of developing talent from within the organization.Today, that’s a huge part of what we’re doing. So, we have a lot of university programs. We have a whole internship program. We do all sorts of really fun projects over the summer where people have tangible work product at the end of it that we actually then deploy inside our shop.And it’s a very different way of bringing in, I would say, deep intelligence, and intellectual curiosity, and energy, and a new way of thinking and working that then you can kind of integrate into the organization. And they developed their mastery by being a part of who we are. And we teach them market structure. I mean, a smart person can learn market structure. But market structure is something they can then take through their entire career.Dov SeidmanFounder and chief executive, LRNThe world has gone from interconnected to interdependent. We’ve never risen and fallen together the way we do today. The behaviors, plights, hopes, aspirations and actions of any one person are experienced viscerally and visually and directly in tiny screens in our hands.It’s not just migration patterns: With one swipe, strangers are coming into intimate proximity on an accelerated basis, and into our homes, and into our cars. We are not just X-raying institutions; we are looking deep into their innermost workings and into the mind-sets and character of those in charge with M.R.I. vision. And we don’t always like what we see, and we’re amplifying it on social media for everybody else to spread for crimination. And then A.I. These unprecedented forces are asking us not just about how products are designed and how they’re being used, but they’re asking us to confront the most fundamental moral question of our time: What does it mean to be human in the age of intelligent machines, when we no longer share the planet with inferior mammals, we no longer have a monopoly on intelligence? What makes us special and unique?That is a moral question. I submit to you that the business of business is no longer just business. The business of business is now society taking responsibility in this context as inescapable, and how you take responsibility is now a new source of competitive advantage. I believe that we are in a profound moral moment.Cindy MiFounder and chief executive, VIPKidIn 2013, I founded VIPKid with the simple idea that every child deserves a global classroom with global teachers and global content of online personalized learning style. So every day, we’re not literally shuttling our teachers — we’re teleporting them to our global classrooms, to their students in China and beyond.VIPKid today has provided new work opportunities for over 60,000 North American teachers, the size of a football stadium. So this is really important, because all of our teachers come from all 50 states in the United States and all provinces and territories in Canada.Ashton B. Carter Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School; 25th secretary of defenseWe have seen cases where technology is leading us to a dark place. And even as that can happen in the Department of Defense, it can happen elsewhere. And in fact, it’s happening in my judgment much more prevalently out there when it has to do with the rest of people’s lives and their quality of life, and their privacy, and the way they are led to behave with respect to their fellow citizens and so forth. That’s sadly rampant.That’s one of the themes of this conference. I feel in my new life, that is my crusade. Technology and public purpose is the issue of our time. Whether it’s in digital, or biotech, jobs and training, we can’t have a good and cohesive society if we don’t get on top of that. So, of course I worry about it.Dave LimpSenior vice president, Amazon Devices and ServicesI grew up in a world where I always had television and my parents didn’t. So, television’s always been my new normal; it was learned behavior for them.I have children, and you can imagine our house uses Alexa in a lot of ways. And when they go to their friend’s house for a sleepover or for a visit and they say, “Alexa, turn on the lights,” and it doesn’t work, they’re stunned. Because it’s their new normal; they expect that to work. Works in every room of our house.But it’s not one demographic that it’s taking off with. You know, certainly kids love it, but I would say that at least once a week, often every day, I get an email from somebody that Alexa and Echo have changed their lives. Because they might not have all their mobility. They might be a little elderly.And they find companionship with Alexa. They find the ability to interact in ways they couldn’t before.Reid HoffmanCo-founder and executive chairman, LinkedIn; partner, Greylock PartnersI do think that over time, we will see a kind of transformation of industry — an enormous change in where the bulk of people find jobs and employment. The first worry is, what will that transition look like?Even though the move from the agricultural to industrial age unlocked the productivity that created the middle class, that created all this prosperity, education, learning and science — and I think we have the same similar potential now — that intervening transition is super painful. And we want not as much suffering as we saw in the transition to the industrial age.Lawrence H. SummersCharles W. Eliot University professor and president emeritus, Harvard University; 71st secretary of the TreasuryAutomation and technology have been affecting our economy forever. People talk about this like it’s something that’s coming in the future. In 1969, between 4 and 5 percent of American men between the ages of 25 and 54 were not working. Today, about 14 percent of American men between the ages of 25 and 54 are not working — almost three times as many, even though we’re at a business cycle peak.There are many reasons for that, but an important part of it is that technology has been able to substitute for the kinds of work that many of them do, making the rewards to them for working much less, and causing many more people to choose not to work.Brad SmithPresident, MicrosoftOne thing we have said is that we will provide our technology to democratically elected governments that broadly focus on the protection of human rights.We will do that because we want these governments to have access to technology. We believe they need to have access to technology. But we also recognize that there are important ethical issues that will arise, and we will use our voice as a corporate citizen to not just actively — but proactively — engage on the issues of the day.But where we don’t think that technology companies are rightly in the business of regulating democratically elected governments, we think democratically elected governments should be in the business of regulating technology companies — not the other way around.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byGood Sunday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)The week of the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum is a fire hose of news. Headlines, predictions, sightings and tidbits that months and years later are recognized as the flash point for much larger shifts and trends can often get overlooked.To help you sort through it all, we’ve put together this crib sheet of everything that we think was important that happened here in Davos. (Yes, I’m writing this from Davos on my way home.)Before we get into the substance, a couple of observations.The World Economic Forum has traditionally brought together the world’s top political and business leaders. But this year, the political leaders were largely absent — remaining in their home countries to handle crises largely of their own making (President Trump with the shutdown and Prime Minister Theresa May with Brexit).The surprise guest this year was Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, making his first appearance; it may be an indication of Apple’s increasing dependence on foreign markets for growth.The topic du jour (besides the shutdown) was a debate over where the global economy was headed. Chief executives professed confidence that their earnings would continue apace, while economists and investors talked about the prospect of a recession in 2020. And others, like Ray Dalio — and Seth Klarman, who did not attend, but whose annual letter was a constant talking point — worried about social unrest. Interestingly, Dr. Doom — Nouriel Roubini — was actually upbeat.A Chinese chief executive described his country’s economy as “ugly” — he used that world repeatedly — suggesting that the underlying foundation there was more fragile than most economists acknowledge. That could lead to weakness in China spreading to the rest of the world. And the general sense is that while the U.S. and China may reach a trade détente, we might be headed for a decades-long economic cold war.Larry Fink’s letter and the concept of E.S.G., shorthand for “environmental, social and governance,” got a lot of discussion this year — it felt like it might be a tipping point in the dialogue. European companies are still more interested in E.S.G. than U.S. companies, but it feels like a trend that isn’t going away. TPG’s Rise Fund started a new company, Y Analytics, to measure E.S.G. Bono, a board member of Rise, was on hand to talk about impact investing and to support his Red brand, which he started a decade ago in Davos (DealBook broke that story at the time) as well as his One franchise. Matt Damon was in town to raise money for his water.org, which is turning into a quite successful story (side note: Mr. Damon had to borrow a suit because his bag got lost by Swiss Air). Jane Goodall was also in Davos — and let me say that she is as nice as she is important. Even the Vatican sent a delegation to talk about conscious and inclusive capitalism.And Rebecca Blumenstein, the deputy managing editor of The New York Times, interviewed Bill Gates on Twitter about his work around the globe.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The soap opera of tariff negotiations has riveted economists and executives: Will Beijing keep its promises? Will Washington cooperate?But the real drama is not about trade, but about technology, many in Davos have said. The brewing conflict could affect generations and disrupt the world order, according to Fred Kempe, the chief executive of the think tank Atlantic Council. He wrote:The growing danger is that the tech race could become the primary battleground in a struggle between democracy and autocracy — and between China and the U.S. The dangers of a technological Cold War, a zero-sum contest for global dominance that ultimately separates Chinese and U.S. tech sectors from each other and divides up the world, are increasing.What’s the worry? The billionaire George Soros said that artificial intelligence, when in the hands of authoritarian regimes, was a “mortal threat” to the world. He cited China, which is developing a social credit system that would use personal data to judge an individual’s trustworthiness, as an example. President Xi Jinping could eventually have “total control over the people,” making him “the most dangerous opponent of open societies,” Mr. Soros said.What do the Chinese think? The technology industry relies heavily on global interactions and is “probably suffering the most right now,” said Ken Hu, the deputy chairman of Huawei. The Chinese telecommunications company has been accused by multiple nations, including the U.S., of violating trade rules. Other players, such as the Chinese state-owned oil and gas company Sinopec, say they expect Chinese companies to scale back foreign investment — steps already taken by Alibaba and by GAC Motor. Last year, nearly 60 percent of Chinese C.E.O.s considered the U.S. to be the most important foreign market; this year, only 17 percent feel the same, according to one survey published this past week.Hope for resolution? Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said via video link that Washington was willing to play nice with Beijing if China pledged to protect intellectual property. At a dinner in Davos, a top Chinese regulator heard complaints from international business leaders about the ownership structure of state-owned enterprises and about the Made in China 2025 effort, which aims to take the lead in industries such as artificial intelligence and robotics.But China wants its space. Vice President Wang Qishan said in a speech that “it is imperative to respect national sovereignty and refrain from seeking technological hegemony.” He added:We need to respect the independent choices of model of technology management and of public policies made by countries, and their right to participating in the global technological governance system as equals.A recession may not be coming this year, but neither is a boom, Greg Ip of the WSJ writes.The International Monetary Fund downgraded its 2019 forecast for global growth to 3.5 percent. That’s a respectable number, he writes, but the world is struggling to sustain even that muted pace.The reason: The world cannot tolerate interest rates as high as it once did. The “neutral” interest rate — one that is high enough to contain inflation, yet low enough to avoid recession — is much lower than before.The underlying cause: As aging workers retire and birthrates drop, the labor force has grown more slowly. Productivity has also eked out smaller gains than in the past.The upshot: Central banks need to proceed carefully, because a little fiscal tightening goes a long way.More on the global economy: Ray Dalio, founder and chairman of the hedge fund Bridgewater, said he foresaw slower growth rates in the U.S. and Europe. France is sticking to a 1.7 percent economic growth forecast for 2019, the French finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said. Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., warned against an overreliance on central banks, urging countries to strengthen their economies through fiscal and structural changes. In the absence of world leaders, the atmosphere was downbeat.Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wasn’t in Davos this week. It just felt like she was.The New York representative’s proposal to impose a 70 percent tax rate on income above $10 million came up frequently among the uber-wealthy in attendance.In those elite circles, filled with people whose fortunes have soared in recent years, the idea was not popular.Michael Dell, the billionaire founder of Dell Technologies, is not a fan, for one. Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners, said the concept was “scary.” Glenn Hutchins, the chairman of North Island and a co-founder of Silver Lake Partners, suggested that it was an attempt to “score political points” and that it would probably be unsuccessful. Ken Moelis, the chief executive of the investment bank Moelis & Company, said it would be “disastrous for the economy.”Stephen Schwarzman, the billionaire chief executive of Blackstone, said he was “wildly enthusiastic” about Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s pitch. (He was being sarcastic.)But as the economy slows and 2020 election talk surges, taxing the rich is a topic that will most likely continue to surface. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a Democratic candidate for president, proposed a so-called ultramillionaire tax this week on the 75,000 wealthiest families in the country, including President Trump’s.Still, top earners would probably figure out how to sidestep such rules, Mr. Minerd said.The political pendulum is swinging. The conservatives found out they’re being held hostage by the extreme right. Now the Democrats are going to find out they’re being held hostage by the extreme left.Globalization had some powerful defenders in Davos, with world leaders imploring delegates not to abandon postwar principles of international integration.Several took jabs at the absent President Trump without mentioning him by name, criticizing his “America First” foreign policy and his habit of provoking trade disputes. The vice president of China, Wang Qishan, whose own country has been accused of running roughshod over foreign competitors and global business rules, nonetheless condemned “practices of the strong bullying the weak and self-claimed supremacy.”Carrie Lam, the chief executive of Hong Kong, said that certain countries were drifting from the multilateral framework of the past few decades.“If that is no longer the mainstream, we could be in trouble,” she said.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who leads a country that is deeply reliant on international trade and increasingly surrounded by neighbors confronted by protectionist tendencies, urged Western powers to “act against the fragmentation of the international architecture.”She said that global organizations such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank should be reformed and that countries should embrace compromise. She added:I think we should understand our national interest in a way that we think about the interests of others, and from that create win-win situations that are the precondition for multilateralism.Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, pledged his country’s support for “the free, open, and rules-based international order.” He called on forum participants to “rebuild trust toward the system for international trade.”World leaders called for more regulation. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said his country would push for a new international system for the oversight of data use.His proposal was echoed by others:• The South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa, said African Union leaders would discuss greater oversight of the tech sector at a meeting early next month.• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany cited a need for the European Union to have a “common digital market.”• Vice President Wang Qishan of China also said that more international cooperation in regulating the market was required.Talk focused on global governance, data privacy and the impact of artificial intelligence, but there was no consensus on what approach to take. Some official sessions tried to put a positive spin on the effects of technological advances, but the optimism seemed out of step with public concern about the disruptive effect on privacy and politics.Tech leaders make the rounds: On his first trip to the forum, Tim Cook, the Apple chief executive, met with world leaders, including President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil and Dubai’s crown prince, Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, acknowledged that her company needed to earn back the trust of the public. Microsoft’s chief executive, Satya Nadella, said that as facial recognition technology grew, he would “welcome regulation that will help the marketplace not be a race to the bottom.”Environmental issues took center stage, with world leaders and celebrities weighing in and new partnerships being formed. One of the biggest initiatives announced at the forum was an alternative recycling platform called Loop, which seeks to change the way consumers buy brand-name products.The concept: The project revives the milkman concept, in which products are delivered in reusable containers that are returned to the manufacturer.The partners: Some of the largest consumer goods companies — including Danone, Mars Petcare, Mondelez International, Nestlé, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble and Unilever — are working together on the project as a way to limit waste.The pitchman: Tom Szaky, founder and chief executive of the recycling company TerraCycle, headed to Davos two years ago to meet with the leaders of packaged goods companies and push his big idea.Climate concerns dominated much of the discussion elsewhere at the gathering:• In an interview with Prince William, the naturalist David Attenborough took world leaders to task for waiting too long to address climate change.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand joined the chorus, urging her global counterparts to think about the role they play in addressing climate change, while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan called for action on the issue.• The singer Bono poked fun at sustainable development goals, saying, “The S.D.G.s, it does sound like a sexually transmitted disease, doesn’t it?”• An expected drop in private jet traffic to Davos this year could be a sign that participants are taking the environmental impact of their travel more seriously.• Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate activist from Sweden, gave a speech urging the global elite to protect the planet.• Forum participants seemed receptive to Saudi Arabia’s damage control campaign over the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. (Reuters)•The World Economic Forum hosts 3,000 official participants, but the population of Davos swells to 30,000 during the week. Here are the unaffiliated events, sessions and parties that drew celebrities like Matt Damon and Wyclef Jean. (CNBC)• The Bank of England is ready for Brexit and is disillusioned with Bitcoin, said its governor, Mark Carney. (Bloomberg)• Hundreds of protesters, some waving signs that read “Let them eat money,” complained that the elite participants at Davos cared more about the bottom line than about the state of the world. (AP)AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy Erin GriffithOn a sunny Saturday morning in New York a few months ago, a group of 50 start-up founders gathered in the dank basement of a Lower East Side bar. They scribbled notes at long tables, sipping coffee and LaCroix while a stack of pizza boxes emanated the odor of hot garlic. One by one, they gave testimonials taking aim at something nearly sacred in the technology industry: venture capital.Josh Haas, the co-founder of Bubble, a software-writing start-up, told the group that he and venture capitalists “were pretty much totally on different wavelengths” about the trajectory of his business.Seph Skerritt, the founder of Proper Cloth, a clothing company, said that the hype around raising money was a trap. “They try to make you feel inferior if you’re not playing that game,” he said.The event had been organized by Frank Denbow, 33, a fixture of New York’s tech scene and the founder of T-shirt start-up Inka.io, to bring together start-up founders who have begun to question the investment framework that has supercharged their field. By encouraging companies to expand too quickly, Mr. Denbow said, venture capital can make them “accelerate straight into the ground.”The V.C. business model, on which much of the modern tech industry was built, is simple: Start-ups raise piles of money from investors, and then use the cash to grow aggressively — faster than the competition, faster than regulators, faster than most normal businesses would consider sane. Larger and larger rounds of funding follow.The end goal is to sell or go public, producing astonishing returns for early investors. The setup has spawned household names like Facebook, Google and Uber, as well as hundreds of other so-called unicorn companies valued at more than $1 billion.But for every unicorn, there are countless other start-ups that grew too fast, burned through investors’ money and died — possibly unnecessarily. Start-up business plans are designed for the rosiest possible outcome, and the money intensifies both successes and failures. Social media is littered with tales of companies that withered under the pressure of hypergrowth, were crushed by so-called “toxic V.C.s” or were forced to raise too much venture capital — something known as the “foie gras effect.”Now a counter movement, led by entrepreneurs who are jaded by the traditional playbook, is rejecting that model. While still a small part of the start-up community, these founders have become more vocal in the last year as they connect venture capitalists’ insatiable appetite for growth to the tech industry’s myriad crises.Would Facebook’s leadership have ignored warning signs of Russian election meddling or allowed its platform to incite racial violence if it hadn’t, in its early days, prized moving fast and breaking things? Would Uber have engaged in dubious regulatory and legal strategies if it hadn’t prioritized expansion over all else? Would the tech industry be struggling with gender and race discrimination if the investors funding it were a little less homogeneous?“The tool of venture capital is so specific to a tiny, tiny fraction of companies. We can’t let ourselves be fooled into thinking that’s the story of the future of American entrepreneurship,” said Mara Zepeda, a 38-year-old entrepreneur who in 2017 helped start an advocacy organization called Zebras Unite. Its members include start-up founders, investors and foundations focused on encouraging a more ethical industry with greater gender and racial diversity. The group now has 40 chapters and 1,200 members around the world.“The more we believe that myth, the more we overlook tremendous opportunities,” Ms. Zepeda said in an interview.Some of the groups are rejecting venture capital because they’ve been excluded from the traditional V.C. networks. Aniyia Williams, who started the nonprofit Black & Brown Founders, said a venture-funded system that encourages many failures for every one success is particularly unfair to black, latinx and women founders who “are rarely afforded the opportunity to fail, period.” Members of these organizations, she added, see more value when whole groups in their communities thrive, rather than venture’s winner-take-all model.Other founders have decided the expectations that come with accepting venture capital aren’t worth it. Venture investing is a high-stakes game in which companies are typically either wild successes or near total failures.“Big problems have occurred when you have founders who have unwillingly or unknowingly signed on for an outcome they didn’t know they were signing on for,” said Josh Kopelman, a venture investor at First Round Capital, an early backer of Uber, Warby Parker and Ring.He said he was happy that companies were embracing alternatives to venture capital. “I sell jet fuel,” he said, “and some people don’t want to build a jet.”Right now, that jet fuel seems unlimited. Venture capital investments into United States-based companies ballooned to $99.5 billion in 2018, the highest level since 2000, according to CB Insights, a data provider. And the investments have expanded beyond software and hardware into anything that is tech-adjacent — dog walking, health care, coffee shops, farming, electric toothbrushes.But people like Sandra Oh Lin, the chief executive of KiwiCo, a seller of children’s activity kits, say that more money isn’t necessary. Ms. Oh Lin raised a little over $10 million in venture funding between 2012 and 2014, but she is now rebuffing offers of more just as her company has hit on a product people want — the very moment when investors would love to pour more gas on the fire. KiwiCo is profitable and had nearly $100 million in sales in 2018, a 65 percent increase over the prior year, Ms. Oh Lin said.“We are aggressive about growth, but we are not a company that chases growth at all costs,” Ms. Oh Lin said. “We want to build a company that lasts.”Entrepreneurs are even finding ways to undo money they took from venture capital funds. Wistia, a video software company, used debt to buy out its investors last summer, declaring a desire to pursue sustainable, profitable growth. Buffer, a social media-focused software company, used its profits to do the same in August. Afterward, Joel Gascoigne, its co-founder and chief executive, received more than 100 emails from other founders who were inspired — or jealous.“The V.C. path forces you into this binary outcome of acquisition or I.P.O., or pretty much bust,” Mr. Gascoigne said. “People are starting to question that.”Venture capital wasn’t always the default way to grow a company. But in the last decade, its gospel of technological disruption has infiltrated every corner of the business world. Old-line companies from Campbell Soup to General Electric started venture operations and accelerator programs to foster innovation. Sprint and UBS hired WeWork to make their offices more start-up-like.At the same time, start-up culture — hoodies and all — entered the mainstream on the back of celebrity investors like Ashton Kutcher, TV shows like “Shark Tank” and movies like “The Social Network.” Few questioned the Silicon Valley model for creating the next Google, Facebook or Uber.Those who tried to buck the conventional method experienced harsh trade-offs. Bank loans are typically small, and banks are reluctant to lend money to software companies, which have no hard assets to use as collateral. Founders who eschew venture capital often wind up leaning on their life savings or credit cards.Jessica Rovello and Kenny Rosenblatt, the entrepreneurs behind Arkadium, a gaming start-up founded in 2001, initially avoided raising venture money. It took four years before the business earned enough to pay them a salary. The sacrifices were “very real and very intense,” Ms. Rovello said. Nevertheless, the business grew steadily and profitably to 150 employees.By 2013, though, as investors poured capital into some rivals, the lure of easy money became too tempting to pass up, and the company raised $5 million. Tensions ensued as Arkadium’s investors expected the company to continue raising money with the goal of selling or going public. Ms. Rovello wanted to keep running the company profitably, growing revenue at 20 percent per year and developing a new product that could take years to pay off.In September, Arkadium used its profits to buy out the investors, allowing the company to remain independent and grow on its own terms. Ms. Rovello said she had no regrets about stepping off the venture-funded path.“If your end game is having a business that you love and continuing to thrive and making careers for people,” she said, “then I’m winning.”In September, Tyler Tringas, a 33-year-old entrepreneur based in Rio, announced plans to offer a different kind of start-up financing, in the form of equity investments that companies can repay as a percent of their profits. Mr. Tringas said his firm, Earnest Capital, will have $6 million to invest in 10 to 12 companies per year.Hundreds of emails have poured in since the announcement, Mr. Tringas said in an interview. “They’re almost entirely from people who assumed there was no form of capital that matched any version of their expectations,” he said.Earnest Capital joins a growing list of firms, including Lighter Capital, Purpose Ventures, TinySeed, Village Capital, Sheeo, XXcelerate Fund and Indie.vc, that offer founders different ways to obtain money. Many use variations of revenue- or profit-based loans. Those loans, though, are often available only to companies that already have a product to sell and an incoming cash stream.Other companies are inspired by the investor buyouts executed by Buffer, Wistia and Arkadium, and are asking investors to agree to similar deals — at potentially lower returns on their investments — in the future.Indie.vc, based in Salt Lake City and part of the investment firm O’Reilly AlphaTech Ventures, offers start-ups the option to buy back the firm’s shares as a portion of their total sales. That caps the firm’s return at three times its investment. In the typical venture capital model, the earnings for a home-run deal are limitless.When Indie.vc started three years ago, it saw two or three applications a week, mostly from venture capital rejects. Now it gets as many as 10 applications a week, mostly from companies that could raise venture capital but don’t want to, said Bryce Roberts, the firm’s founder.“We think there is going to be a tsunami of entrepreneurs who have experienced the one-size-fits-all venture model and want to cherry-pick the pieces of it that work for them,” Mr. Roberts said.Some venture capitalists have applauded the shift; their style of high-risk investing is not right for many companies. In a recent blog post, Founder Collective, a firm that has invested in Uber and BuzzFeed, praised Mr. Roberts’s offerings while warning founders of the dangers of traditional funding. “Venture capital isn’t bad, but it is dangerous,” the post reads. The firm created ominous warning labels and brochures to send to its companies.Privately, some venture capitalists have bemoaned the way they’re locked into rigid investment mandates with perverse incentives. “We heard from many investors who said, ‘I can’t say this publicly, but I’m in the machine and I know it’s broken, and I know there is a better way,’” Ms. Zepeda said.Others have dismissed the trend, according to Mr. Roberts. “It’s amazing how thin-skinned and threatened V.C.s tend to be around people who question their model,” he said.Even if venture capitalists ignore the companies rejecting their model, some of their investors — endowments, pension funds and mutual funds — are exploring ways to participate. The tech industry’s year of bad headlines has inspired some soul-searching.“I think we should, as investors, take seriously our role in driving some of these destabilizing forces in society,” said Rukaiyah Adams, chief investment officer at Meyer Memorial Trust, an investor in venture capital funds and nonprofits. “As one of the controllers of capital, I’m raising my hand and saying, ‘Wait a minute, let’s really think about this.’”Still, the new growth models represent a tiny percentage of the broader start-up funding market. And venture capitalists continue to aggressively pitch their wares — even to companies that aren’t interested.Notion, a collaboration software company based in San Francisco, has just nine employees and close to one million users, many of whom pay $8 a month. The company is handily profitable. Aside from a small seed round in 2013, it has avoided outside funding.Venture capitalists, desperate to get a piece of the company, have dug up Notion’s office address and sent its founders cookie dough, dog treats and physical letters, company executives said. Every few months, a new investor inevitably shows up unannounced at Notion’s gate.Notion’s ambitions are big — the company wants to replace Microsoft Office. But its executives don’t believe they need hundreds of millions of dollars in financing to do it, nor do they want the strings that come attached.“We’re not anti-V.C.,” said Akshay Kothari, the company’s chief operating officer. “We’re just thinking for ourselves, rather than for them or other peers.”An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the order in which members of Zebras Unite appeared. They are from left, Mara Zepeda, Aniyia Williams, Astrid Scholz and Jennifer Brandel.Follow Erin Griffith on Twitter: @eringriffith.AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Daniel Edward Henning and Michael Lockwood Crouch were married April 5 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. Tanya Litochevsky, a staff member of the City Clerk’s Office, officiated.Mr. Henning (left), 32, is the marketing content manager for Music Theatre International, a theatrical licensing agency in New York. He graduated from Baldwin Wallace University in Berea, Ohio.He is a son of Mary E. Henning and David L. Henning of Geneva, Ohio.Mr. Crouch, 34, is a voice-over actor in New York, who narrated the audiobook of Rebecca Makkai’s novel “The Great Believers.” He graduated from Ithaca College in Ithaca, N.Y.He is a son of Mary L. Crouch and Gregory K. Crouch of Austin, Tex. He is a stepson of Dawn Crouch.The couple met in 2013 on the uptown local C train in New York, and have been together ever since.Jessie Allyn Toback and Noah Rothman were married April 6 at the Brazilian Court Hotel in Palm Beach, Fla. Rabbi Ronne Friedman officiated.The couple met in 2006 at Franklin & Marshall College, from which they graduated.Mrs. Rothman, 31, is a second-grade teacher at Birch Wathen Lenox, a private school in New York. She received a master’s degree in childhood education and special education from N.Y.U.She is a daughter of Meryl L. Toback and Michael H. Toback of New York. The bride’s father is the owner of 20/20 Eyewear, an optical store in New York. Her mother is the owner and senior designer of Meryl Toback Interiors in New York.Mr. Rothman, 30, is a manager and producer in the New York office of Underground Films, a Los Angeles-based management and production company.He is the son of Susan R. Bolotin and John M. Rothman of New York. The groom’s mother is the publisher and editorial director of Workman Publishing in New York. His father is an actor, who recently starred in “One Mississippi,” a dark comedy on Amazon Prime Video, inspired by the comedian Tig Notaro’s life.The bride’s father realized that Mr. Rothman would be attending the same college as his daughter when Mr. Rothman came into his store for a pair of glasses. The bride’s father showed Mr. Rothman a picture of his daughter and suggested that they meet. The couple met on the first day of freshman year at Franklin & Marshall College, but didn’t start dating until their sophomore year.Carrie Michele Dorn and Adam Neal Friedman were married April 6 at the Lodge at Little Seneca Creek in Boyds, Md. Cantor Caron Dale officiated.The bride, 36, is a senior practice associate in Washington at the National Association of Social Workers, where she specializes in health care practice and policy issues. She graduated from Vassar and received two master’s degrees from Columbia, one in social work and the other in public administration.She is the daughter of Susan B. Dorn and Jeffrey L. Dorn of Englewood, N.J. The bride’s father is the director of operations and facilities at Central Synagogue in New York. Her mother is a freelance graphic artist.The groom, also 36, is a fire research engineer at Jensen Hughes, a fire protection and life safety engineering consulting firm in Baltimore. He graduated from the University of Maryland, from which he also received a master of science degree in fire protection engineering and where he is currently studying for a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering. He is also a volunteer firefighter and emergency medical technician with the Fire Department of Silver Spring, Md.He is the son of Bonnie A. Friedman and Robert M. Friedman of Silver Spring. The groom’s mother retired as a communications specialist with the Small Business Administration in Washington. She is also the author of “Hospital Warrior: How to Get the Best Care for Your Loved One.” His father, also retired, was a mathematics and science teacher at Quince Orchard High School in Gaithersburg, Md.The couple met on OkCupid in July 2016.Erin Elizabeth Hatch and Benjamin Robert Thomas were married April 6 at District Winery in Washington. The Rev. G. Douglass Lewis, a friend of the bride’s family and past president of the Wesley Theological Seminary, performed the ceremony.Mrs. Thomas, 31, works in Washington as the press secretary for the House Committee on Ways and Means. She graduated magna cum laude from Colgate University.She is the daughter of Susan Daugherty Hatch and Eric J. Hatch of Bethesda, Md. The bride’s father is a marketing consultant based in Bethesda. Her mother is a freelance marketing writer, also based in Bethesda.Mr. Thomas, who is 35 and works in Washington, is the legislative director for Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas. He graduated from Baylor University.He is a son of Alicia H. Thomas and Ron Thomas of San Antonio. The groom’s mother, who retired as the deputy chief academic officer for the Houston Independent School District, is now a consultant at Moak, Casey & Associates, a public service and consulting firm, based in Austin, Tex., that provides school finance and accountability analysis. His father, a retired school principal, now serves on the boards of San Antonio’s Communities in Schools and the San Antonio Independent School District Foundation.The couple met in January 2015 while both were working in Representative Castro’s office.Lacey Ann McKeon and Steven Clark Rockefeller III were married April 6 at St. Joseph’s Church in West Orange, N.J. The Rev. Msgr. Michael E. Kelly, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride and groom, both 31, met at Boston College, from which each graduated.Mrs. Rockefeller is a production manager at MLB Network in Secaucus, N.J.She is a daughter of Ann C. McKeon and John F. McKeon of West Orange. The bride’s father, the mayor of West Orange from 1998 to 2010, is a Democratic state assemblyman who represents the 27th District. He is also a senior partner in Hardin, Kundla, McKeon and Poletto, a legal defense firm, with offices in Springfield, N.J., and New York. Her mother, who was a stay-at-home parent, retired as a part-time lawyer from the same law firm.Mr. Rockefeller is a commercial real estate broker at Cushman & Wakefield in New York. He is also a member of the Rockefeller Family Office’s Operating Committee in New York.He is a son of Kimberly Eckles Rockefeller and Mr. Rockefeller Jr. of Pleasantville, N.Y. The groom’s parents are venture capitalists focusing on immune oncology, blockchain application and city-center development in China. His mother is on the board of the Friends of the Rockefeller State Park Preserve in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. His father is a member of the Rockefeller University Council in New York, an international advisory group committed to the advancement of science.The groom is a great-grandson of the late Nelson A. Rockefeller, a former vice president of the United States and governor of New York.The couple, who met in 2005 as freshmen, socialized in the same circle of friends through college. Ms. McKeon said everyone always thought they were supposed to end up together, but she would brush them off. Mr. Rockefeller, on the other hand, said he always knew she was special. In 2013, when they both lived in New York and reconnected, she came around to his point of view. The day after Thanksgiving in 2017, as they walked along the reservoir in the South Mountain Reservation in West Orange, Mr. Rockefeller proposed.Samantha Nicole Marpe and Kristofer Andy Sandor were married April 6 at the United States Naval Academy Chapel in Annapolis, Md. The Rev. Eric Hoog, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 34, is a recruiter with Henkel Search Partners, a company in New York that specializes in recruiting investment professionals for private equity firms. She graduated from Penn State.She is the daughter of Mary Ellen Marpe and James S. Marpe of Westport, Conn. The bride’s father is the first selectman of Westport and a retired senior partner of Accenture, a global management and technology consulting company in New York. Her mother serves on the board of trustees of the Westport Country Playhouse.The groom, 40, was until December 2018, the general manager of Citi Bike, a bike share company based in New York. He previously served nine years on active duty in the Navy as a nuclear submarine officer, having achieved the rank of lieutenant, and was last stationed at the Office of the Secretary of Defense in Washington. He also served as a White House social aide in the Bush and Obama administrations before entering the private sector. He graduated from the Naval Academy and received an M.B.A. from Stanford.He is a son of Maria Sandor and Istvan Sandor of Lake Worth, Fla. The groom’s father, who worked in Boonton, N.J., retired as the president and founder of the Bio-Chem Valve Corporation, a manufacturer of high-quality fluidic components used in clinical diagnostics and analytical chemistry. His mother was a stay-at-home parent.The couple met in November 2016 through the online dating app the League. Their first date was at a wine bar that same month in New York’s West Village.Arielle Amandla Parker and Seth Naiburg Kisch were married April 6 at the Loeb Boathouse in Central Park. Rabbi Jim Stoloff officiated.Mrs. Kisch, 28, is a human resources professional at the New York law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, where she specializes in professional development. She graduated cum laude from Syracuse.She is the daughter of Sheryn H. Parker and Andrew C. Parker of St. Elizabeth, Jamaica. The bride’s father retired as a senior foreign service officer for the State Department in Washington. Her mother is a vice chair of the board of directors of the Edna Manley School of the Visual and Performing Arts in Kingston, Jamaica, and the founder of International Women Jamaica, a nonprofit organization based in Kingston.Mr. Kisch, 36, is an executive director for project and infrastructure finance at Morgan Stanley in New York. He graduated from Harvard and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania, from which he also received a master’s degree in international studies. Mr. Kisch is the son of Lisa G. Naiburg and Daniel A. Kisch of New Hyde Park, N.Y. The groom’s mother, who is retired, was an executive synagogue director at the Temple Beth Israel in Port Washington, N.Y. The groom’s father retired as a chief executive of SmartWork Media, a media company based in New York. He serves on the company’s board of directors.The couple met in 2015 on the dating app Hinge.Katherine Anne Del Raso and Christopher Michael Brolley were married April 6 at the Cathedral Basilica of SS. Peter and Paul in Philadelphia. The Most Rev. Timothy C. Senior, the auxiliary bishop of Philadelphia, performed the ceremony.The bride, 28, and groom, 31, met at Villanova, from which she graduated cum laude and received a joint law degree and M.B.A., and he received a law degree.The bride, who will continue to use her name professionally, is an associate banker in the Philadelphia office of J. P. Morgan Private Bank. She is a daughter of Anne M. Del Raso and Joseph V. Del Raso of Devon, Pa. The bride’s father is a partner in Pepper Hamilton, a Philadelphia law firm. He is also chairman of the board of directors of Encore Series, presenter of the Philly Pops; and former chairman of the board of the National Italian American Foundation. Her mother was a stay-at-home parent.The groom is a judicial law clerk for Jeffrey L. Schmehl, a United States District Court judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, with chambers in Reading. He graduated from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y. He is the son of Maria T. Brolley and Luis O. Rios of Miami Beach. The groom’s mother is a lawyer in private practice in Miami. His father is a certified public accountant, also in private practice in Miami.Lucy Blond Melcher and John Martin Coady III were married April 6 at the InterContinental Hotel Washington — the Wharf. Jordan L. Bookey, a cousin of the bride who became authorized as a temporary officiant by the District of Columbia Marriage Bureau for the occasion, officiated incorporating Jewish elements.Mrs. Coady, 36, is a director of the No Kid Hungry Campaign at Share Our Strength, a nonprofit organization working to end childhood hunger, in Washington. She graduated cum laude from American University and received a master’s degree in public policy from Duke.She is a daughter of Barbara B. Melcher and Richard A. Melcher of Chicago. The bride’s father is a founding partner at Melcher & Tucker Consultants, a marketing and communications firm in Chicago. He is on the board of Mother Jones, a nonprofit investigative news organization in San Francisco. Her mother is an interior designer there. Until 2018, she was a founding board member of Impact Grants Chicago, a women’s volunteer collective that supports nonprofit groups in Chicago.Mr. Coady, 37, is the national development director of For Our Future, a political action committee in Washington focusing on community organizing for underrepresented voters. He graduated cum laude from Stonehill College in Easton, Mass., and received a master’s degree in political science from Suffolk University in Boston.He is a son of Patricia Coady of Reading, Mass., and the late Mr. Coady Jr. The groom’s mother retired as a radiologic technologist at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. His father worked in Chelsea, Mass., as a buyer for the Proler International Corporation, a company based in Houston, involved in processing, recycling, and selling ferrous and other scrap metals.The couple were introduced in August 2016 through the dating app Bumble, and a few days later they met at a wine bar in Washington. After realizing they had early morning flights out of Washington National Airport that Saturday, they decided to squeeze in a second date, which turned out to be a quick chat before they went through security at 7 a.m. and caught different flights.Ashira Beth Greene and William Winter Beutler were married April 6 at the Park Hyatt in Washington. Rabbi Aaron Miller officiated.Mrs. Beutler-Greene, 33, is a program associate on the meetings and special events team at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington. She is a juror for the Scholastic Art and Writing Awards, a high school and middle school writing and art competition, based in New York. She graduated from Wellesley College, and received a master’s degree in literary and cultural studies from Carnegie Mellon University, and a Ph.D. in education, focusing on the teaching of English literature in French secondary schools, from University College London.She is the daughter of Dara Ludwig Greene and Joshua E. Greene of Fairfax, Va. The bride’s father, an economist, retired as the deputy director of the IMF-Singapore Regional Training Institute in Singapore. He is now an economic consultant, as well as a visiting professor and the interim director of the applied economics track of the master of science in economics program at Singapore Management University. Her mother retired as a program analyst in the Office of Civil Rights at the Department of Education in Washington.Mr. Beutler, 39, is the founder and chief executive of Beutler Ink, a digital marketing agency in Washington. He is the creator of the Infinite Atlas Project, an interactive work mapping all geographic locations in David Foster Wallace’s “Infinite Jest.” He is also a creator and a host of a podcast, “Enter the Void,” which focuses on unconventional cinematic works. He graduated from the University of Oregon.He is a son of Toija J. Beutler and William C. Beutler of Portland, Ore. The groom’s mother, a lawyer, is the owner of the Beutler Exchange Group in Lake Oswego, Ore., which assists in tax-deferred exchanges of real estate across the United States. His father retired as a mechanical engineer from Allied Systems Company, a heavy equipment manufacturer in Sherwood, Ore.The couple connected in January 2017 through OkCupid.Claire Catherine Pires and Katherine Bogas Rhodes were married April 6 at Popp Fountain at the Arbor Room, an events space in New Orleans. Brian Koncius, a cousin of Ms. Rhodes who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.Ms. Pires (right), 28, is a senior account executive at MWWPR, a public relations firm in New York. She graduated from the University of Southern California and received a master’s degree in journalism from Columbia.She is the daughter of Sheila A. Pires and Alexander John Pires Jr., both of Washington. She is also the stepdaughter of Katherine Lazear, who is now married to Sheila Pires, and Diane Cooley, who is now married to Mr. Pires Jr. Ms. Pires’s father is a partner in Pires Cooley, a Washington law firm, and is also the chief executive and chairman of the Board of Community Bank Delaware. Her mother is the founding partner of the Human Service Collaborative of Washington, a policy and technical assistance group specializing in child and family service systems.Ms. Rhodes, 35, is a partner in Epstein, Becker & Green, a New York law firm, where she specializes in labor and employment law. She graduated from the University of Chicago and received a law degree, magna cum laude, from Tulane University.She is the daughter of Kathleen L. Bogas and Frank K. Rhodes III of Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Ms. Rhodes’s father is the owner and founding partner of a law firm bearing his name in Southfield, Mich. Her mother is a lawyer and founding partner of Bogas & Koncius, a law firm in Bingham Farms, Mich., and she also serves as a co-chairwoman of the Michigan Judicial Qualifications Committee.The couple met on OkCupid in December 2013, and had their first date at a wine bar in New York.Roxanne Elizabeth Bras and Stephen Howell Petraeus were married April 6 in Cambridge, Mass. The Rev. Alanna C. Sullivan, a United Church of Christ minister, performed the ceremony at the Memorial Church of Harvard University.Mrs. Petraeus, 32, is an associate of McKinsey & Company, the global consulting firm in Boston. She graduated magna cum laude from Harvard and received a master’s degree in international relations from Nuffield College, Oxford, where she studied as a Rhodes scholar.She is the daughter of Karen Elizabeth Bras and Mark Jan Bras of Lake Mary, Fla. The bride’s father is a captain for American Airlines in Miami. Her mother is a medical quality assurance registered nurse in Orlando, Fla., for Ideal Image, a national medical spa.Mr. Petraeus, 32, is studying for a joint law degree and M.B.A. from Harvard. He graduated from M.I.T. He is the son of Hollister Knowlton Petraeus and David H. Petraeus of Arlington, Va. The groom’s father, the former general and director of the Central Intelligence Agency, is a partner with KKR, the global investment firm. His mother is a retired assistant director at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Washington.The couple met as sophomores in college, in 2006, when they were both Army cadets at M.I.T’s Reserve Officer Training Corps unit. They were commissioned as Army officers and served together in Afghanistan in 2010.Caroline Grace Marra and Benjamin Caleb Hemani were married April 6 at the Philbrook Museum of Art in Tulsa, Okla. Virginia Lanford Hemani, the mother of the groom who became a minister with American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated.The bride, 30, who was until April 2017 a life sciences consultant in Boston, is now studying for a Ph.D. in health policy and management at Harvard. She graduated from Vanderbilt and received a master of engineering management degree from Dartmouth.She is a daughter of Cinda R. Marra and Mark J. Marra of Tulsa. The bride’s father is a Tulsa-based independent petroleum geologist. Her mother, a longtime grammar schoolteacher in New Jersey and Oklahoma, last taught remedial reading at Jenks High School in Tulsa.The groom, 31, works in Seattle, where he manages the personal venture capital portfolio of Bill Gates, a founder of Microsoft. He graduated from Dartmouth.He is a son of Ms. Hemani of Ipswich, Mass., and Dr. Sadruddin B. Hemani of Newburyport, Mass. The groom’s father is an otolaryngologist in private practice in Newburyport. His mother retired as an Episcopal chaplain at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.The couple met in September 2011 in Hanover, N.H., during the first day of orientation for their master’s program at the Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth.Advertisement

      By SUSAN DOMINUS

FEB. 21, 2019

What happens when people who have trouble fitting into a traditional workplace get one designed just for them?
What happens when people who have trouble fitting into a traditional workplace get one designed just for them?By SUSAN DOMINUSBefore Ben Hirasuna showed up for the first job interview of his life, he went for weeks at a time without leaving his parents’ home in Santa Monica. Outside, sun poured down; inside, he looked at the top of his forearm and noticed it was every bit as pale as its underside. To say Hirasuna is shy is to say the ocean is big — it captures nothing of the vastness of the feeling. He managed to attend college at Arizona State for just over a year but returned home for good in November 2017. For a few months, he took some classes at a local community college, but eventually his routine gave way to solitude at home. During the day, he slept; at night he rose to battle the enemy in futuristic cities and pastel landscapes on his PC, or tinkered on another monitor with any of the codes (Java, Perl, Rust, C++ and C#) he taught himself in high school. Finally, last November, his parents insisted that he get a job — any job, at the bakery down the street or at McDonald’s, if it came to that.Hirasuna could not imagine a worse hell than a job in customer service, which would require, he sensed, a more cheerful public face than he could possibly muster. He remembered that in September, he went to an innovation fair at his old high school and met the head of a technology consulting business called Auticon, which specializes in hiring people who are, like Hirasuna, on the autism spectrum. He made an appointment with a recruiter at the office, and in early January, he forced himself to make the 10-minute drive to Auticon’s office two blocks from the beach. After going upstairs to the right floor, he stood outside the door of the office, stymied by what to do next.Given a few hours, Hirasuna could usually make sense of whatever computer code someone threw at him, but this particular script was elusive. Did he open the door and barge right in? “It seemed kind of rude,” Hirasuna said. “Like, ‘Hey, here I am!’ ” A mass of soft, pale brown curls surrounds his head, cloudlike. As he recalled this moment of indecision, he reached up and pulled on a strand of hair a few times. “It was like my brain threw the blue screen of death on me,” he recalled. Was he supposed to wait right there for someone to open the door? What if they were busy with another appointment at that moment and he interrupted or even ruined it? Hesitating in the hall, he feared he would just stand there forever, blowing what seemed like such a good opportunity — to do work he might actually like — in a disastrous moment of total self-conflagration, his head exploding with uncertainty. And then it happened. Someone opened the door.Offices, for plenty of people, can occasionally be overwhelming, crowded with feelings too big for cubicles, too personal for a professional setting. A higher-up checks a watch midconversation; a comment in a meeting is talked over; someone and someone else go to lunch. Doubts flourish under fluorescent lights that expose every slight, every interpersonal hurdle.And then there are people like Hirasuna, who are on the autism spectrum; people who feel bombarded by those same clues and cues, all the while knowing they are unreliable interpreters of their meaning. For some people with autism, socializing is an elaborate game with more exceptions than rules, so that any small decision — hover outside the boss’s office? don’t hover? — poses an insurmountable challenge. Guesswork is prevalent, misapprehension the norm. “When it is hard to read the room, so to speak, it does morph into anxiety over time,” said Grey Patton, a 23-year-old employee on the spectrum who graduated from the University of California, Riverside, last spring and who, like Hirasuna, started working at Auticon in January. “It’s moving in the dark without a flashlight.”The challenges of navigating the social complexities of a workplace is one reason unemployment even among college-educated people with autism appears to be disproportionately high. No good national data exist, but various small studies suggest the problem of joblessness is chronic, says Paul Shattuck, a professor of public health at Drexel University who studies autism outcomes. Anxiety, commonly experienced in people with autism, can make typical workplace competition unbearable; one Auticon employee, in a BBC report, compared his experience at his last job to the television show “Survivor.” The interview process alone is a sociability test that many people with autism are destined to fail or inclined to avoid altogether. (Some members of the autism community prefer to be described as “autistic.” Others, including those I interviewed at Auticon, preferred to be described as “on the spectrum” or as “a person with autism.” “Just don’t call me late for dinner,” said one who did not have a preference.)Major technology businesses like Microsoft and SAP have made significant efforts over the past several years to hire more people with strong cognitive skills who are on the spectrum, recognizing that they represent untapped potential in the job market. Human-resource departments have modified interview processes, trained staff to accommodate certain sensitivities (to sounds or disruptions) and helped co-workers and managers adjust to those colleagues’ needs (for example, closer supervision). Auticon goes one step further; it is an office where people who have autism are a majority. Employees on the spectrum do not make up a pod within a company; instead, they define the predominant culture.Many businesses that recruit people with autism specialize, like Auticon, in quality assurance, which is like a poultry-inspection service for software. Is the log-in working on the home page? What happens if someone right-clicks on this other link? The work can be rote and entry-level or require more skilled analysts to write scripts that test that software automatically, “essentially to see if I can break it,” as Hirasuna put it.In 2013, around the same time technology companies first started expanding their hiring of people with autism, Gray Benoist, a father of two sons on the spectrum, plotted out a business for the express purpose of securing his children’s future. He knew they were smart and capable; he also knew, as he put it, “that they present themselves in ways that may not be corporate-America kinds of ways.” He moved his family from St. Louis, where he had been the chief financial officer of an industrial-product business, and started over in Santa Monica, to create a software quality-assurance business that expanded its offerings over time. With a few partners, he founded MindSpark as a California benefit corporation, a type of for-profit business. It is founded on the radical proposition that social purpose and employee well-being are as essential to their mission as profit. Within five years, the business was thriving, with two offices, one in Culver City and the other in Santa Monica. The company had about 32 employees, ranging from entry-level trainees to skilled automation analysts, all of whom were on the spectrum, as well as about seven neurotypical managers and administrators. (With time, says Rebecca Beam, Auticon’s president, the company hopes to promote current analysts into more managerial roles, breaking down that division.) In 2018, Auticon, a German company based in Munich, a business also devoted to employing people on the spectrum, acquired Benoist’s start-up.The name MindSpark nicely matched the feel-good ingenuity of the business; Auticon, on the other hand, summons the image of an army of automatons, defined by their diagnoses and marketed to deliver maximum software efficiency. Auticon’s marketing material names “pattern recognition” and “uncompromised honesty” as valued skill sets in autistic people. In fact, research is mixed on whether people with autism actually do excel at visual pattern recognition, relative to peers of equivalent I.Q., and the range of talents (and honesty) is highly individual. Selling autism as a brand likely perpetuates some generalizations — even stereotypes — in the name of overcoming bias, a complicated compromise, if a strategic one.A business full of people who are on the autism spectrum provides its own kinds of managerial and interpersonal challenges, but to be the norm in an office, rather than an exception, is an unqualified relief for many of Auticon’s employees. Hirasuna noticed the difference in the first week of work, when he was writing an email to his manager. “I realized after the first day, Oh, yeah, I don’t have to read this over for nuance and all that stuff,” he said. In college, he hated emailing his professors, because he agonized over whether his tone was too forceful or too presumptuous or too inarticulate. At Auticon, he said, he felt a release in simply writing an email, reading it over for typos and sending it out. What was the worst his boss was going to think if he sent out a tone-deaf email? “ ‘That’s autism!’ ” Hirasuna said with a big, comedic shrug. “ ‘O.K. — that’s what we expected!’ ”One morning in late January at a daily status meeting at Auticon’s Culver City office, Mirzat Musayaf, a manager, gathered a group of four software analysts in the conference room to find out where things stood on a project for a major client. As the meeting began, Kayla, 59, one of the more outgoing members of the office and an informal leader, rocked gently back and forth at the conference table. (She asked that only her first name be used.) Kayla was not offended when Musayaf, whose workstation is across from her own, first placed another computer monitor next to her first one, so her frequent movement would not distract him. “Oh, it drives my husband crazy, too,” she assured him. “But it helps me concentrate.” (Bill Gates is also known to rock during meetings; a 1990 Fortune article noted that some of his employees, when engaging in intense conversation, did the same, as if emulating his movement.)Musayaf’s agenda that day included addressing any mistakes that had been made over the past week. Kayla believed a colleague, who was also sitting at the table, had digressed from instructions directing analysts to notate a certain task in a specific way. As the conversation turned to that issue, the colleague started wringing his hands. His lower jaw jutted out, and he gritted his teeth. He asked a question, then smiled with vindication upon hearing the answer. “O.K.,” he said, then leaned in and pointed a finger at Kayla: she was at fault for this issue, he explained, not him. The issue was minor, his reaction stark and defensive; no self-conscious joke or neutral professionalism defanged his point. It was a classic office dynamic playing out in raw, unedited form.Later, in an email to me, Kayla wrote that although she could see how someone neurotypical might interpret his reaction as hostile, she, as someone also on the spectrum, did not. “I knew that he was showing no anger or malice toward me,” she wrote. “We understand and respect each other.”Musayaf interpreted the moment of tension in the meeting as essentially harmless; he understood the colleague’s strong reaction as a symptom of anxiety rather than an unlikable character trait. Musayaf, like the other managers, known as leads, had received a few three-hour training sessions on how to work with people on the spectrum, but he was hardly an expert; that he was drawn to the work at Auticon, despite other options, suggested to the people who hired him that he would be sensitive enough to manage his team well.Musayaf could see that even after the conversation had moved on, Kayla’s colleague was still distressed. Musayaf stopped the discussion to make a point. “Look,” he said, “there is no correct way, or incorrect.” He explained, gently, that his only objective was to keep the project on track. The colleague visibly relaxed.A culture of acceptance occasionally conflicts with a training environment intended to prepare the staff for the possibility of working in a more typical office. Rebecca Beam, a longtime tech recruiter who became president of Auticon when the company acquired MindSpark last year, sensed early on that many Auticon employees felt uneasy when she stopped by their desks in the morning with a big hello. Many of them were uncomfortable with small talk; they had no interest in rehashing their weekends or looking at pictures of Ziggy, Beam’s terrier mix; but Beam saw a morning greeting as the bare minimum of office socializing, a nicety they might as well endure, if only for practice.Before working for the company, Beam had no personal connection to someone with autism but believes all individuals deserve work worthy of their talents. She joined the advisory board of MindSpark at its founding and relied on her longstanding business contacts to bring in major clients like Fox and Warner Brothers. But before she was put in charge of Auticon’s United States business in June 2018, she hadn’t known the staff well enough to realize, as she eventually did, that every decision, no matter how small, mattered.In her first weeks on the job, Beam made what turned out to be a bold move: She gave the Santa Monica office a small makeover, trying to brighten it with some new furniture for the front entryway, a smattering of succulents, some framed posters of illustrated animals. Over a weekend, she also had a wall, once white, painted gray.That Monday, Max Gadson, a 24-year-old analyst who has been with the company for two years, arrived at the office and stopped short, taking in all this newness. He knew something was happening — they had been told to clear their desks — but no one knew exactly what. No one said anything about the wall being painted, much less that it would be gray, and here it was Monday, and now, boom! Gray wall. Gadson does not have obsessive-compulsive disorder, but he imagined that this feeling was a bit like that, the sense that something was out of order. He did not understand why the wall color had changed and sought out his supervisor to talk it through.Another co-worker, Gray Benoist Jr. (the son of MindSpark’s founder), who is 31, took issue with a new patterned chair now placed in the entry area. The chair would later prove popular — some staff members avoid the small couch opposite the chair, for fear someone will sit too close to them — but certainly, in the beginning, Beam could tell some employees were out of sorts. One analyst asked why she insisted on placing succulents in the Culver City office when, as he sees it, they were so clearly superfluous. On another occasion, she moved a young man’s desk without consulting him, and he temporarily quit. For most of Beam’s staff, she realized over time, there is no such thing as a pleasant surprise (unless it’s pizza).“People with my type of disorder, it’s not that we don’t have emotion,” Gadson said. “It’s that we have too much emotion. We can’t push that stuff back.”Beam, as she started to understand the office’s workings, gave a lot of thought, in her first month, to the size of a couch she was buying for a conference room in Culver City, until the question was no longer about a couch and more about a culture. She knew that if she bought one that was long, employees would sleep on it and not just doze, sitting, with their eyes closed, but stretch out and slumber deeply. Many of her employees have poor sleep habits; some are on medication that can affect their sleep. (Around half of adults with autism also have a mental diagnosis of a psychiatric condition like anxiety or depression, according to a 2015 Kaiser Permanente study of 1,500 people on the autism spectrum.) Would Auticon, going forward, be a place where you could regularly lie down and nap during lunch in the conference room, so long as you made it back to your desk on time? Or was it going to be a place where that was considered inappropriate? In the end, Beam decided to lean into the workplace as an accommodating space: She bought the big couch. At lunch, someone is usually napping on it, even when other employees are playing Ping-Pong on the conference table, their jackets strewn across it for a net.Accommodations that would seem unusual at another office seem perfectly reasonable to the employees at Auticon. At the Culver City office, overhead lights bothered one or two colleagues so much that everyone agreed to work without artificial lights, so that often, by the end of the day, they are all working in pitch darkness, rectangles of soft, bright light from their computers illuminating their faces. Absences, in general, are not encouraged, but they are accepted as a cost of doing business with a population that often experiences depression. Managers adjust, within reason, to their employees’ boundaries, rather than the other way around, such as when employees suffering from gastrointestinal problems — a little-understood but common issue for some people on the spectrum — call in to explain, in great detail, why they won’t be coming in that day. Another employee had disappeared, without notice, for several days, and his managers were afraid for his safety. “You know, some employers would say to someone like that, ‘I’m done,’ ” Beam said. “But I’m going to work with that person and work with that person, because I see the potential.”Beam frequently checks in with Emily Gale, a behavior analyst who consults for Auticon and specializes in autism in the workplace. Gale, in one instance, came in to help resolve an issue with an employee who always said he understood the feedback he was getting on a given task but never actually executed it successfully. “It was clear that the analyst was getting so anxious — I could see it — that he wasn’t able to process what it was he was being told,” she said. He was rubbing his hands on his knees, rocking, repeating back words without seeming to grasp the context. Ultimately, they worked out a system in which the lead would ask fewer open-ended questions to confirm that the employee understood, and the analyst, instead of being expected to express any uncertainty or confusion during the conversation, would ask follow-up questions by email or Slack. The lead also provided a written cheat sheet with instructions, rather than having the staff member take notes while listening. The lead reported to Gale the following week that he had a better sense of what the analyst did and did not understand and could therefore address it.Some Auticon employees have skills that would likely earn them higher pay were they employed at a big company in the United States. But Auticon invests heavily in their training and offers the kind of bespoke workplace systems that allow for their success, even for analysts in entry-level jobs. It employs analysts with advanced degrees from top universities and people who failed to make it through college, people whose minds work at high operating speed and some with short-term memory challenges (and some with both). Somehow the balance of talents and abilities keeps the operation afloat.“I kind of like it here,” Hirasuna said, a month into his job. He was learning new programming skills he wouldn’t have acquired on his own. He felt the strain of leaving the house every day but also, he had to admit, some relief. As workplaces go, this one was relatively painless: “They accept me as I am.”At the Culver City Auticon office one evening in January, several employees took turns playing Super Smash Brothers Ultimate in the conference room during a staff party, while a software analyst sat silently, unmoving, unspeaking, watching for the duration of the two-hour gathering; another played alone at his desk on an Xbox One he had brought with him.In the middle of the main room, several colleagues and Beam were competing in a brainy board game called Scrutineyes, a sophisticated version of I Spy in which competitors name objects on the board that start with a certain letter. “Horus,” said one competitor named Will Collett, 31, recognizing the half-falcon, half-man image of the Egyptian god. He spotted a medieval weapon: “Halberd.” Before he worked at Auticon, Collett’s previous jobs were selling vacuum cleaners door to door and then working at a fast-food restaurant, which refused to promote him for reasons he is still not sure he grasps.A few feet from that game, Grey Patton sat on a small bench near the door. Patton, sweet-faced and floppy-haired, his forehead showing a sheen of perspiration from the stress of the party, needed to sit somewhat apart to stay calm in an office full of people talking and moving in unpredictable directions and playing video games at high volume. As a college student, he said, he attended a party — once. “It felt really claustrophobic,” he said. “I was like, O.K., I think I’ve had enough.” He had come to this party mostly for the pepperoni pizza, which he was now eating in peace. Patton could at least be fairly sure, at Auticon, that no one would pressure him to join the fun or even wonder why he did not.The night of the party, Auticon employees could see, if they walked along an outdoor corridor on the way to the bathroom, another office across a courtyard. Its conference room was brightly lit and crowded with about 15 well-dressed employees. The office was the corporate headquarters of a fast-casual vegetarian-restaurant business, and its employees looked well suited to the work — fit, tan but not too tan, as if they had all chosen just the right amount of S.P.F. One person was usually talking at a time; everyone else looked listless. The darker it got outside and the longer the meeting lasted, the more tempting it was for someone walking by to stare into the bright room. The office space looked like a diorama of the world’s worst meeting — interminable, held at the end of the day, in a too-small, harshly lit room.The next evening, the same people seemed to have gathered for yet another meeting in that same bright room. In the Auticon office, across the way, the room was, at 5:30, silent and dark, so dark you actually might want a flashlight to move across it. Earlier in the day, the room, though quiet, practically vibrated with an intense sense of collective focus; by early evening, that concentration was giving way to a more meditative energy. Kayla interrupted the silence with a burst of laughter. She had been telling her colleague — the one who had bristled in the meeting — that her son had used small metal numbers to post the number representing pi up to 15 digits on the back of her car. The colleague sent a message on Slack: “I prefer this number: 3.87298334621.” The note made her laugh, even though she wasn’t sure what it meant. “It’s the square root of 15,” he told her. She burst out laughing again.The conversation turned to the meeting happening across the courtyard, which seemed to have struck a few people the same way: with a feeling of sympathy. They had to execute tasks at Auticon, but they did not have to perform charm, to fake engagement at an intolerably endless meeting. ”Don’t they look miserable?” Beam said. Kayla was indignant. “You know that at least some of them are introverts,” she said. This seemed like unnatural torture to her, what those employers were doing. It was almost as if they didn’t think their employees had feelings.Susan Dominus is a staff writer for the magazine. She last wrote about the psychologist Walter Mischel.Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019Feb. 21, 2019AdvertisementAdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesBroadway, Wagner’s “Ring,” the opening of the Shed: what our critics and writers are looking forward to this season.‘TOOTSIE’ What’s wrong with musical comedy? Generally, the music. And the comedy.Which may be why most of the best musicals of the last decade — “Fun Home,” “Hamilton,” “The Band’s Visit” — have been serious indeed. The art of being funny on the beat is mostly a lost one.But David Yazbek, the songwriter behind the musical comedies “Dirty Rotten Scoundrels” and “The Full Monty,” maintains the magic. Even his score for “The Band’s Visit,” mostly drenched in melancholy, has moments of lyrical hilarity. Let’s just say “marrow” and “pharaoh” never thought of rhyming until he insisted.That’s the top reason (among several) I have high hopes for the stage version of “Tootsie,” arriving at the Marquis Theater on March 29. Based on the 1982 movie about an actor whose stalled career revives only when he pretends to be a woman, it offers both the size and sentiment a musical comedy, in any era, needs for liftoff. JESSE GREEN‘OKLAHOMA!’ What’s likely to be the freshest, most revolutionary musical on Broadway this season is more than three-quarters of a century old. Its title is “Oklahoma!,” and, yes, that’s the same Rodgers and Hammerstein show about farmers, cowhands and frontier love that was first seen in New York in 1943. But the director Daniel Fish’s revitalizing interpretation, scheduled to open at the Circle in the Square Theater on April 7, asks theatergoers to look at a deeply familiar classic through the eyes of the 21st century.The songs, dialogue and characters remain almost entirely the same. But as it demonstrated during its sold-out run at St. Ann’s Warehouse in Brooklyn last year, Mr. Fish’s version finds provocative depths of darkness amid the prairie sunshine. BEN BRANTLEY‘INK’ The British actor Bertie Carvel, who wore a dress for his Tony-nominated role as the terrifying schoolmistress Miss Trunchbull in the musical “Matilda” six years ago, is switching to neatly tailored trousers for his return to Broadway. But don’t expect him to be any less intimidating. In James Graham’s “Ink,” which opens in April at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, Mr. Carvel will be portraying one Rupert Murdoch. And in this London hit about the tabloidization of British journalism, directed by Rupert Goold, any similarities between Mr. Carvel’s character and a certain Australian-born media mogul are definitely not coincidental. BEN BRANTLEY‘WHAT THE CONSTITUTION MEANS TO ME’ Heidi Schreck’s play about invisible women and the 14th Amendment was electrifyingly topical when it ran Off Broadway last year, amid the national outcry over the Supreme Court nomination of Brett Kavanaugh.Sadly or fortuitously, “What the Constitution Means to Me” is even more urgent as it moves to Broadway, where performances begin on March 14. Its take on abortion as a protected liberty (and a personal turning point) comes smack up against now-Justice Kavanaugh, who signaled, in one of his first opinions, a willingness to reverse Roe v. Wade.But the play is deeper than its timeliness suggests. Though it uses the idea of debate as a touchstone — and ends, deliciously, with a live one — it’s really about how we come to question our most bedrock assumptions about the world. If that makes seeing it almost a civic duty, duty has rarely been so pleasurable. JESSE GREEN‘THE LEHMAN TRILOGY’ Three Bavarian-born brothers who first set foot on American soil more than 150 years ago are returning to New York next month, accompanied by a centuries-spanning brood of their descendants. Their names are Henry, Emanuel and Mayer, and they — and their seemingly countless kin — will be reincarnated at the Park Avenue Armory in Stefano Massini’s “The Lehman Trilogy,” an epic tale of financial rise and ruin, directed by Sam Mendes.This three-hours-plus production features what is surely the largest cast of characters of any play in town. Yet they are embodied by a mere three, seemingly inexhaustible actors with the power to multiply themselves like amoebas: Simon Russell Beale, Ben Miles and Adam Godley. Though the story they tell — which begins and ends with the world-rocking bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 — is one of entropy, the play in which they appear promises to be a resounding testament to the regenerative powers of theater.As befits a sprawling, globe-girdling story of historic transformation, “The Lehman Brothers” has an intricate, multinational pedigree. Mr. Massini’s chronicle of a dynasty begun by emigrants to the United States began life as an Italian radio play before making its stage debut in Paris (in French) in 2013. Its Italian premiere was at the fabled Piccolo Teatro in Milan two years later, when it ran a whopping five hours.Ben Power’s English-language adaptation opened at the National Theater in London last summer, overseen by Mr. Mendes, the very busy stage and film director whose gripping production of Jez Butterworth’s “The Ferryman” is a current hit on Broadway. Mr. Power pared Mr. Massini’s trilogy to a sleek and unexpectedly lyrical three hours (not counting two intermissions) to be performed almost entirely by three actors on an elegant but nearly empty rotating set (by the ever-inventive Es Devlin).Otherwise, empty is hardly a word to be applied to this interpretation, as I can attest from seeing it at the National last July. Mr. Beale, Mr. Miles and Mr. Godley fill the stage to repletion, as they assume the varied forms of the dynasty-founding Henry, Emanuel and Mayer — and all subsequent generations of Lehmans.And their friends, lovers, spouses, customers, rivals, ad infinitum, with a variety that continually astonishes. Unlike investors who lost their fortunes on Wall Street a decade ago, no one who leaves this encounter with the brothers Lehman is likely to walk away feeling poor. BEN BRANTLEY‘MARYS SEACOLE’ Born in 1805 to a free Jamaican mother and a Scottish father, Mary Seacole grew up to become an international businesswoman and freelance nurse, crossing paths with soldiers, royalty and Florence Nightingale.That would be more than enough material for a straight-ahead bio-drama — but not, it seems, for the always surprising and formally ingenious Jackie Sibblies Drury, whose “Fairview” was one of last year’s best plays. In the deliberately plural “Marys Seacole,” playing through March 24 at LCT3’s Claire Tow Theater, everyone in the six-woman cast is a Mary — or a Merry, a Miriam, a Mamie or the like.The indispensable Quincy Tyler Bernstine appears as the historical Mrs. Seacole in this production directed by Lileana Blain-Cruz. The others, whose characters cross continents and time, help raise a central question of nursing even now: Who takes care of the people who take care of others? JESSE GREEN‘WHITE NOISE’ No American playwright has contributed more to the churning and ever-evolving conversation about race in these United (and divided) States than Suzan-Lori Parks. This prodigiously imaginative writer, who won a Pulitzer Prize for “Topdog/Underdog,” has addressed the toxic legacy of slavery in a rich assortment of theatrical forms and languages, from the surrealism of her early “The America Play” to the Homeric chronicle “Father Comes Home From the Wars.”Now Ms. Parks is focusing her gaze on interracial friendships in the 21st century with the resonantly titled “White Noise,” which begins previews next month at her longtime home, the Public Theater. Oskar Eustis, the Public’s artistic director, oversees a four-member cast, led by Daveed Diggs (the original Marquis de Lafayette in “Hamilton”) as an African-American man forced to reconsider the depth and danger of the gap between black and white. BEN BRANTLEY‘MRS. MURRAY’S MENAGERIE’ I’m not sure anyone could have imagined a duller setting for a play than a high school faculty meeting, yet in “Miles for Mary,” the theatrical collective called the Mad Ones turned the banality of the break room into a hilarious and ultimately galvanizing Off Broadway hit.As if to top themselves, the Mad Ones return this spring with “Mrs. Murray’s Menagerie,” set in (a) the 1970s; at (b) a focus group; for (c) a children’s television show. That is all we know, and all we need to know.Except that the Ars Nova production, which begins performances on March 26 at the Greenwich House Theater, features a cast of expertly light-touch farceurs under the direction of Lila Neugebauer, who made “Miles for Mary” so moving behind the laughs. If this is banality, let’s have more! JESSE GREENTHE ‘RING’ The Metropolitan Opera’s high-tech, low-energy production of Wagner’s four-opera “Ring,” which returns for three cycles this spring, has been notable mostly for its snafus. At its first performance — “Das Rheingold,” back in 2010 — the set’s massive array of seesaws malfunctioned near the end, spoiling the gods’ climactic ascent across a rainbow bridge.Another time, the Microsoft Windows logo flashed across the stage instead of the sophisticated projections that distinguish the cycle’s many locales. One performance of “Die Walküre” that was being broadcast live to cinemas worldwide was delayed nearly an hour because the “Machine,” as it became known, wouldn’t cooperate. And that’s not counting the loud creaks and whirs that accompanied its every move.But while the Met claims that the costly Machine — conceived by the production’s director, Robert Lepage — has been tamed, the technical troubles always struck me as distractions from the real problem. All of Mr. Lepage’s spending and innovation resulted in a cycle that was dull, and out of touch with Wagner’s intricately drawn characters and plot.The singers seemed genuinely undirected, lost in front of the set’s imposing mass; the production team was scrambling to make the effects work, but it appeared that relatively little attention had been given to the acting. There were no discernible relationships charted onstage, no drama, no attempt to transmit — let alone interpret for our time — complex themes of power, sacrifice and societal collapse.Indeed, though the set design meant that some singers spent long stretches in a kind of trough, the effects, while wonky, may have been the best part. At the beginning of “Das Rheingold,” bathed in blue light, the 20 enormous planks levitated in silence. Wagner’s long, low E flat began. Then, like the music, the machine began undulating — first slowly, then faster. It truly was the river Rhine.The opening storm of “Die Walküre” similarly came to life: We were in a sky full of dark, rushing clouds; then in the middle of a forest during a snowstorm; then inside a hut glowing with firelight. It was sweeping and evocative.A production crowded with visual stimulation, in which the singers seemed to be left to their own devices? This “Ring” reminded me, more than it probably intended to, of the Met’s hyper-realistic Franco Zeffirelli spectacles of the 1980s. Like Mr. Lepage, Mr. Zeffirelli creates grand spaces in which stick figures are moved around. The shows ignite when you have compelling performers and sink when you don’t.This revival — which Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manger, is mounting after many thought the Machine, last seen in 2013, would be mothballed for good — does indeed have some compelling casting. Christine Goerke, as Brünnhilde, promises more vocal confidence than Deborah Voigt had when the production was new; Greer Grimsley and Michael Volle will each make a capable, articulate Wotan; Philippe Jordan returns to the Met for the first time since 2007 to conduct.Things may well go more smoothly this time around. But will this yet be a Wagner we can believe in? ZACHARY WOOLFE‘PRISONER OF THE STATE’ “How he mocked me,” a villainous official laments, explaining why he locked away the political prisoner he now wants killed. That chilling line rings out in “prisoner of the state,” the new David Lang opera that reimagines Beethoven’s only opera, “Fidelio”; the New York Philharmonic will give its premiere on June 6.Beethoven’s theme feels as resonant as ever in a country grappling with questions about mass incarceration; immigrants separated from their children at the border; whether the president is answerable to the law; and how inmates were quietly kept without heat or light for days in a federal jail in the middle of New York City.The opera, directed by Elkhanah Pulitzer, will serve as the finale of Jaap van Zweden’s first season as the Philharmonic’s music director, and he will conduct a cast that includes the moving bass-baritone Eric Owens. MICHAEL COOPERECSTATIC MUSIC FESTIVAL Among its other skills, the Bang on a Can organization is smart about fund-raising. By soliciting fans to help them commission new works, the collective ensures a reliably expanding repertory for its in-house chamber ensemble, the Bang on a Can All-Stars.The latest batch of these “People’s Commissioning Fund” pieces comes to the Ecstatic Music Festival at Merkin Concert Hall on March 6. Fresh music by Nicole Lizée and Pulitzer Prize-winner Henry Threadgill will share a bill with vintage works by Annie Gosfield and Glenn Branca, who died last year. The evening’s theme is music for dancing, which Mr. Threadgill has previously explored with his Society Situation Dance Band. If you can’t make it to the concert, you can tune in for a live webcast, on newsounds.org. SETH COLTER WALLSMITSUKO UCHIDA It’s easy to forget that the piano is a percussion instrument when it’s played by Mitsuko Uchida. She animates it with both symphonic might and enchanting lyricism — a perfect fit for the vast emotional range and singing melodies of Schubert. Ms. Uchida recorded one of the finest cycles of Schubert’ssonatas, and she has been revisiting portions, the late works, in a survey at Carnegie Hall. That comes to an end this spring, with two recitals on April 30 and May 4.Endings are very much part of both programs. They are almost stages of grief: The Sonata No. 20 in A (D. 959) contains an abruptly tumultuous passage, like a petulant tantrum, then the heart-rending Sonata No. 21 in B flat (D. 960) offers bittersweet acceptance. JOSHUA BARONETHE SHED The Shed has a modest name and enormous ambitions.Opening April 5, it’s the cultural component of the gigantic Hudson Yards development on the West Side of Manhattan: an eight-story structure that includes galleries; rehearsal space; a theater that can adapt to seated or standing-room events; and a shell that can enclose an adjacent plaza into a performance space.Its mandate is to commission and present world premieres of new and innovative works, and its artistic director and chief executive, Alex Poots, arrives after a decade as the artistic director of the Manchester International Festival in Britain and, in recent years, of the Park Avenue Armory in New York City.The Shed’s first full-scale offering celebrates the heritage and scope of African-American music. Over five nights from April 5-14, “Soundtrack of America” sets out to explore a “family tree” of American music, from spirituals to hip-hop, with a lineup of 25 young performers to bring out continuities and breakthroughs.“Soundtrack of America” arrives with unquestioned credentials. The series is conceived and directed by the filmmaker and video artist Steve McQueen, whose “12 Years a Slave” won the Oscar for best picture in 2014. His brain trust includes the illustrious producer Quincy Jones; the crate-digging hip-producer No I.D. (a.k.a. Dion Wilson); and the keyboardist Greg Phillinganes, who was Michael Jackson’s musical director and has worked with Stevie Wonder, Eric Clapton and Bruno Mars.The performers announced so far — five each night — include 2019 Grammy winners like Fantastic Negrito and PJ Morton; the genre-meshing New Orleans band Tank and the Bangas; Judith Hill, who sang backup for Prince and Michael Jackson, among many others; the rapper and singer Smino; the eerily idiosyncratic, falsetto-loving songwriters Moses Sumney and serpentwithfeet; and Jon Batiste, who leads the band Stay Human on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” The African-American musical family tree gives them a boundless source of potential material.The Shed has also announced another major musical production, May 6-June 1: a premiere from Björk, who introduced her “Biophilia” in 2011 at the Manchester International Festival. Björk describes it as “my most elaborate stage concert yet, where the acoustic and digital will shake hands”; her backup includes a seven-woman Icelandic flute ensemble. The title, promisingly, is “Cornucopia.” JON PARELESROBYN A Robyn show is a bit different from other pop concerts. It isn’t an over-the-top spectacle of rotating set pieces and wardrobe changes, or a showcase of vocal acrobatics and choreographed backup dancers.It is sweaty and straight-up — pop church and pop group therapy, a place for fans of the Swedish singer and songwriter, who first hit the United States in the late 1990s, to experience Robyn’s transcendent, deeply addictive music beside her.From February to April, including a stop at Madison Square Garden in New York on March 8, she’s touring to support “Honey,” her first full album in eight years, which came after a half-decade of psychoanalysis and a series of personal challenges. Her loyal listeners have been anxiously waiting to share their euphoria and pain. CARYN GANZMASSIVE ATTACK In 1998, the British trip-hop trio Massive Attack unleashed its third album, “Mezzanine,” a brooding, sensual, chilly, paranoid record of sputtering grooves and gauzy atmospherics that wound its way into popular culture everywhere, from “The Matrix” to the TV show “House.”The band has released two more albums in the 21 years since, but the gravitational pull of “Mezzanine” remains potent, and the group — now a duo consisting of Robert del Naja (known as 3D) and Grant Marshall (Daddy G) — is playing a series of shows marking its (belated) 20th anniversary. The brief tour, which hits Boston on March 14 and wraps in San Diego on April 2, promises to be an enveloping, dynamic visual extravaganza. CARYN GANZBIG EARS FESTIVAL The Big Ears Festival in Knoxville, Tenn., has become a point of pilgrimage for all sorts of experimental listeners: Indie classical, avant-garde jazz, ambient electronic music and post-rock are all well accounted for here.The festival will celebrate its 10th anniversary, March 21-24, overtaking nearly a dozen spaces across the city’s downtown. All are within walking distance of each other, but each is comfortable and acoustically sound enough that you’ll forget what you’re missing a few doors down.This year’s acts range from the virtuoso vocalist Theo Bleckmann (paying tribute to Kate Bush) to the radical improvisers in the Art Ensemble of Chicago to the psychedelic, soulful explorations of the rock band Spiritualized. Big Ears 2019 doubles as a 50th-anniversary celebration of ECM Records; the influential label will present 20 performances throughout the festival, featuring artists from across its eclectic roster. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOMERCE CUNNINGHAM Merce Cunningham, that marvel of a choreographer, understood that dancing meant different things to different people. In the book “Merce Cunningham: Fifty Years,” he is quoted as saying: “What to some is splendid entertainment, to others is merely tedium and fidgets; what to some seems barren, to others is the very essence of the heroic.”His entire career was a heroic act of vision and persistence. One of the most revered and revolutionary choreographers of the 20th century, Cunningham was a rule breaker who collaborated deeply with many artists, including his life partner, the composer John Cage. Their experiments involved allowing music and dance to exist separately, as well as introducing the concept of chance as a creative device.In 2019, the year of his centennial, Cunningham — who died at 90 in 2009 — is being celebrated all over the world with performances, workshops, talks, screenings and more.“The ideas are still very much alive and relevant and exciting and creative,” Ken Tabachnick, the executive director of the Merce Cunningham Trust, said. “Every time I see something again, I’m just amazed at how relevant it is. It could have been made yesterday.”That is one of the important points that Mr. Tabachnick and Trevor Carlson — a trustee and the producer of the Trust’s celebration of the centennial — hope to impart with the multi-tentacled celebration. Events continue all year and are updated on the Trust’s website, but one highlight is just around the corner: “Night of 100 Solos: A Centennial Event,” on April 16, Cunningham’s birthday.Three cities — London (at the Barbican), New York (at the Brooklyn Academy of Music) and Los Angeles (at the Center for the Art of Performance at U.C.L.A.) — will stage Events, the name that Cunningham gave to performances that featured fragments of works from his repertory. (Events date to 1964.)“We’re looking to continue Merce’s tradition of doing things that hadn’t been done before,” Mr. Carlson said. “We wanted to make the largest Event ever made.”In the spirit of the new, none of the performers — including the New York City Ballet principal Sara Mearns, the Martha Graham dancer PeiJu Chien-Pott and the choreographers Kyle Abraham and Vicky Shick — are former Cunningham dancers. Those dancers are involved, however, in staging the solos. (Cunningham’s company, according to his wishes, disbanded after his death and a legacy tour.)“We wanted to signal that the Cunningham legacy has a future for people who never experienced Cunningham,” Mr. Tabachnick said. “So you’ll see ballet dancers, you’ll see dancers who are not classically or rigorously trained, you’ll see younger dancers and older dancers. And that is to show the diversity and breadth of the possibilities for the legacy.”Events are piling up, and include a Cunningham celebration at the Joyce Theater (April 17-21) featuring Compagnie CNDC-Angers/Robert Swinston, Ballet West and the Washington Ballet. Amid the excitement, Mr. Carlson has a problem. It’s a good one.“It’s wild, but I’m afraid we might have to expand the amount of time of the centennial in order to include everyone who wants to be included,” he said. “I think we’re going to see ourselves extending to what would have been Merce’s 101st birthday.” GIA KOURLASDANCE THEATER OF HARLEM Dance Theater of Harlem has never been just another ballet troupe. It was created, in 1969, as a hopeful reaction to hope-crushing circumstances. The assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was among the spurs to action, but the principal problem in need of addressing was longstanding and continuing: the dearth of opportunities for ballet dancers who were not white. “You can’t do this,” these dancers were told by the world in many ways. Dance Theater of Harlem told them they could, and then proved it to the world.The survival of this institution for 50 years deserves a big celebration. With the death of its trailblazing founding director, Arthur Mitchell, in September, the anniversary festivities have also become memorials. In recent decades the company has valiantly struggled with diminished funds, and its New York season at City Center (April 10, 12-13) isn’t as grand as one might wish. Such signatures pieces as “Agon,” “Firebird” and “Creole Giselle” return only in excerpts. But it’s appropriate that one of Mr. Mitchell’s works (“Tones”) is being revived, and Robert Garland, the troupe’s underrecognized resident choreographer, is presenting a premiere. However these turn out, the occasion is major. BRIAN SEIBERTPAM TANOWITZ When Emma Portner, known for her video dances, withdrew from a New York City Ballet commission, the company turned to Pam Tanowitz. The circumstances are hardly ideal, but here’s a one-word reaction: Finally.Ms. Tanowitz, whose new ballet will be unveiled at the company’s spring gala on May 2, has been making dances since 1992. Celebrated for her ability to mix classical and contemporary vocabulary within a framework of formal structures, she will expand a piece set to Bartok’s String Quartet No. 5 that she created during a choreographic workshop at American Ballet Theater in 2017.It’s not the prolific Ms. Tanowitz’s only new dance this season: In April, she presents a work at the Martha Graham Dance Company; another commission, from Paul Taylor American Modern Dance, will have its premiere at the Orchestra of St. Luke’s Bach Festival in June, the same month she presents a new work for her company and the City Ballet dancers Sara Mearns and Taylor Stanley at the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council’s River to River Festival.And on March 22, she will land in Cleveland to stage a site-specific work at Pilgrim Congregational Church for her company along with local dancers. “Recital #1 (five small dances for Cleveland)” is an experiment: She’s looking at ways to reimagine her repertory. GIA KOURLASLIGIA LEWIS Every so often, New Yorkers catch a glimpse of the choreographer Ligia Lewis, who spends much of her time in Berlin. Her brief visits, which in recent years have been high points of the American Realness festival, are not to be missed.Capping the refusal-themed “No Series” at Performance Space New York, Ms. Lewis will present “minor matter” and “Water Will (in Melody),” two parts of a triptych that began in 2014 with the spare and piercing “Sorrow Swag.” Each work in the trilogy corresponds to a color, teasing out its associations: blue, red and white. (“Sorrow Swag” featured a lone male performer enveloped in blue light.)First seen in New York at Abrons Arts Center, where three indefatigable dancers (Ms. Lewis included) seemed almost to topple the theater walls, “minor matter” (red) returns May 21-22. Exploring the space between love and rage — and the relationship between blackness and the black-box theater — it stages a kind of tangled collective struggle, in which the people onstage could be conspiring with or against one another, maybe both at once. The final part, “Water Will (in Melody),” May 28-29, flirts with melodrama and catastrophe, which sounds like a fitting end. SIOBHAN BURKEAdvertisementIn 1942, a volley of torpedoes sent the U.S.S. Wasp to the bottom of the Pacific. For decades, the families of the dead wondered where in the lightless depths of the ocean the ship could possibly be. Earlier this year, a team of wreck hunters set out to find it.A World War II helmet found by the Petrel, a high-tech research vessel, at the bottom of the Pacific.CreditCreditDavid Maurice Smith for The New York TimesSupported byBy Ed CaesarOn July 1, 1942, the U.S.S. Wasp, an aircraft carrier holding 71 planes, 2,247 sailors and a journalist, sailed from San Diego to the western Pacific to join the battle against the Japanese. On board was a naval officer named Lt. Cmdr. John Joseph Shea. Two days before he left San Diego, Shea wrote his 5-year-old son a letter.Dear Jackie,This is the first letter I have ever written directly to my little son and I am thrilled to know that you can read it all by yourself. If you miss some of the words, I am sure it will be because I do not write very plainly. Mother will help you in that case I am sure.I was certainly glad to hear your voice over the long-distance telephone. It sounded as though I were right in the living room with you. You sounded as though you missed your daddy very much. I miss you too, more than anyone will ever know. It is too bad this war could not have been delayed a few more years so that I could grow up again with you and do with you all the things I planned to do when you were old enough to go to school.I thought how nice it would be for me to come home early in the afternoon and play ball with you, and go mountain-climbing and see the trees, and brooks, and learn all about woodcraft, hunting, fishing, swimming and things like that. I suppose we must be brave and put these things off for a little while.When you are a little bigger you will know why your daddy is not home so much any more. You know we have a big country and we have ideals as to how people should live and enjoy the riches of it and how each is born with equal rights to life, freedom and the pursuit of happiness. Unfortunately, there are some countries in the world where they don’t have these ideals, where a boy cannot grow up to be what he wants to be with no limits on his opportunities to be a great man, such as a great priest, statesman, doctor, soldier, business man etc.Because there are people and countries who want to change our nation, its ideals, forms of government and way of life, we must leave our homes and families to fight. Fighting for the defense of our country, ideals, homes and honor is an honor and a duty which your daddy has to do before he can come home to settle down with you and Mother. When it is done, he is coming home to be with you always and forever. So wait just a little while longer. I am afraid it will be more than the two weeks you told me on the phone.In the meantime, take good care of Mother. Be a good boy and grow up to be a good young man. Study hard when you go to school. Be a leader in everything good in life. Be a good Catholic, and you can’t help being a good American. Play fair always. Strive to win but if you must lose, lose like a gentleman and a good sportsman. Don’t ever be a quitter either in sports or in your business or profession when you grow up. Get all the education you can. Stay close to Mother and follow her advice. Obey her in everything, no matter how you may at times disagree. She knows what is best and will never let you down or lead you away from the right and honorable things in life. If I don’t get back, you will have to be Mother’s protector because you will be the only one she has. You must grow up to take my place as well as your own in her life and heart. Don’t let her brood over me nor waste herself on anyone not worthy of her or you.Love your grandmother and granddad as long as they live. They, too, will never let you down. Love your aunts and see them as often as you can. Last of all, don’t ever forget your daddy. Pray for him to come back and if it is God’s will that he does not, be the kind of a boy and man your daddy wants you to be.Thanks for the nice sweater and handkerchiefs and particularly for the note and card. Write me very often and tell me everything.Kiss Mother for me every night.Goodbye for now.With all my love and devotion for Mother and you,Your daddyOn the afternoon of Sept. 15, the Wasp was in the Coral Sea, escorting a convoy of United States Marines bound for Guadalcanal, in the Solomon Islands, when it was hit by torpedoes fired at close range by a Japanese submarine. Explosions immediately rocked the ship. Many men were killed instantly. The ship’s magazines and fuel stores detonated like bombs. The hangar deck, where most of the planes were stored, was soon entirely ablaze. At the same time, water rushed into the breaches in the ship’s hull, and the Wasp lurched 15 degrees to its starboard side, like a boxer buckling at the knee after a body shot.The commanding officer of the Wasp, Capt. Forrest P. Sherman, swung the ship around, so that the flames and smoke blew toward the ocean rather than across the deck, but it made no difference. More than 300 feet of his ship, from the bow to the central “island” containing the bridge, was subsumed by an uncontrollable inferno. Within minutes, the Wasp had become a vision of hell.Half an hour after the strikes, Sherman realized the situation was hopeless. He made the order to abandon ship. The worst-injured were loaded onto rafts. Many other survivors simply jumped into the flaming waters around the ship with only life preservers, flotsam or mattresses to keep them afloat.[Sign up for the weekly At War newsletter to receive stories about duty, conflict and consequence.]Five hours after the Wasp was hit, it was irreparably damaged but still drifting with the current. The U.S.S. Lansdowne was ordered to scuttle the carrier with a volley of torpedoes. The Wasp slipped below the surface at 2100 — 9 p.m. — then sank through more than two and a half miles of water to the bottom, where it has remained ever since, a giant carcass surrounded by miles of desert, in the permanent midnight of the deep ocean floor. In total, 194 men on the Wasp were deemed “killed or missing” on Sept. 15, 1942. One of them was John Shea.On Jan. 2 of this year, a research vessel called the Petrel set out from Honiara, on Guadalcanal, to find the Wasp. To locate a shipwreck — even a 741-foot aircraft carrier — it’s essential to have an accurate idea of where to start looking. The ocean is vast. You need to find the haystack before you can find the needle. In the Second World War, before the advent of satellites, a ship’s position was plotted using traditional open-sea techniques. There was celestial navigation — using a sextant to navigate by the sun and the stars — and dead reckoning, the estimation of current position based on time, speed and bearing. In dead reckoning, a tiny miscalculation of one variable over a great distance can lead to a large error in final position. A navigator’s skill was particularly tested when his ship was under fire, or sinking. As a result, separate reports from naval battles of the era can show the same vessel in positions more than 20 nautical miles apart.The ocean is also frighteningly deep. Much of the bottom of the Coral Sea, where the Wasp went down, lies between 4,000 and 6,000 meters, in what is known as the abyssal zone: a lightless realm characterized by frigid water temperatures, scant animal life and crushing atmospheric pressure. (Below 6,000 meters, in the oceanic trenches, the deepest part of the ocean, is known as the hadal zone; it is truly the underworld.)It can be hard to grasp the profundity of the abyss. You could imagine its depth as being between eight and 12 Freedom Towers, stacked one on top of another; or, at the higher end of the range, one Denali. But even thinking about the distance to the ocean floor in terms of height is ultimately unhelpful, because to imagine skyscrapers or mountains is to imagine them made visible by light, and the sea is entirely dark below about 1,000 meters. While I was on board the Petrel, the concept that I found most vivid and unsettling was the idea of “sinking time.” When the crew dropped a transponder fitted with a 60-pound weight from the deck of the Petrel, it took more than an hour to reach the bottom.A result of this profound inaccessibility is that scientists know the surface of Mars in greater detail than they do the abyssal plains of the ocean, which cover more than 50 percent of the earth’s surface. An international project called Seabed 2030 aims to recruit enough vessels to conduct a full bathymetric survey of all the world’s oceans within 11 years — a laudable, if wildly ambitious, task. The oceans cover 140 million square miles. At present, less than 10 percent of the ocean floor has been adequately mapped.The Petrel is perhaps the best-equipped, and certainly the most successful, private vessel on Earth for finding deepwater wrecks. A 250-foot North Sea oil-and-gas-maintenance vessel, bought in 2016 and retrofitted for wreck hunting, it is a strange but beautiful ship. It’s the Petrel’s height that strikes you first. The ship is steered from a bridge on the seventh deck, more than 40 feet above the waterline, with 360-degree windows that lend it the feel of an aircraft-control tower, or an aerie. The ship’s most precious assets are housed several decks below the bridge. They include an autonomous underwater vehicle, or A.U.V.: an underwater drone that looks like a fat yellow torpedo. The A.U.V. uses side-scan sonar to look for “anomalies” on the seafloor. The Petrel also houses a remotely operated vehicle, or R.O.V., a four-ton square submersible robot that looks like a futuristic elevator car, which is fitted with powerful lamps, high-definition cameras and hydraulic arms and is connected to the Petrel by a 6,000-meter umbilical cord on a winch.The Petrel owes its existence and success to Paul Allen, the multibillionaire who founded Microsoft with Bill Gates and who died in October at age 65, after a recurrence of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. For Allen, underwater exploration and World War II history were abiding interests. Allen’s lavishly appointed 414-foot yacht, the Octopus, had its own submarine and R.O.V., which he used for subsea exploration. But, after a few notable successes — including the discovery in 2015 of the wreck of the largest battleship ever built, the Japanese Musashi — Allen decided he wanted his own, separate research vessel that wouldn’t stop exploring every time he wanted to use the Octopus for the Cannes Film Festival or for New Year’s in St. Barts. Allen bought the Petrel, paid for its renovation, salaried its crew and sourced its rare and expensive underwater-research tools. The investment has paid off abundantly: In the two years since it became a dedicated wreck hunter, the Petrel has discovered, among many other ships, the remains of the U.S.S. Lexington and U.S.S. Juneau, as well as perhaps the most infamous American warship of all time, the U.S.S. Indianapolis, which sank with tremendous loss of life in 1945.The vessel itself is worth $15 million; the A.U.V. and the R.O.V. cost around $5 million each; the crew is highly skilled and could easily be employed in oil and gas or other fields. To fill the Petrel’s fuel tank from empty costs $650,000. Chartering the Petrel, fully crewed, as the United States Navy has done when American aircraft have been lost at sea, costs about $80,000 a day. But to Allen, at least, its expense was trifling. In 2010, he pledged to give away more than half his wealth. That goal proved impossible within his lifetime: His investment portfolio grew faster than he could spend it. Allen bought superyachts, estates and sports teams that barely dented his pile. He collected vintage planes, guitars and cars. He threw Gatsby-esque parties. He started a minor space program. He also gave $2 billion away in the fields of education, health care, science and the arts, and appeared on The Chronicle of Philanthropy’s list of the 50 most generous Americans 17 years in a row. Nevertheless, he was worth more at the time of his death ($20 billion) than he was in 2010 ($13.5 billion). (Allen’s portfolio of business and philanthropic interests — including the Petrel — is now being managed by his sister, Jody, and the senior management of his company Vulcan.)When the Petrel sailed from Honiara, there were 37 people on board, including a photographer for this magazine and me. Most of the crew were “maritime” — that is, they attended to the continued smooth and safe running of the ship itself. A separate exploration team, consisting of 10 highly caffeinated British and American engineers and programmers, was dedicated to the subsea mission. This group was called A.T.U., which stands for “all things underwater.” Leading the expedition was Robert Kraft, a former Army medic and civilian submarine pilot who bore more than a passing resemblance to a “The Fugitive”-era Harrison Ford, and who was known to his colleagues as “Hollywood Rob.”Kraft had allotted 15 days to search for the Wasp, after which the Petrel would change course to look for another sunken American carrier. In theory, this was plenty of time. Searching one ocean-floor grid of about 40 square miles with the A.U.V. took about 18 hours. If the sortie yielded no clues, it was possible to reprogram and relaunch the probe in a few hours. (Roughly speaking, the A.U.V. could complete a new mission every 20 to 22 hours.) When you deducted the time it took to travel to and from the rough spot in the ocean where the Wasp was believed to have sunk — a little less than three days, in total — that gave the crew something like 15 opportunities to find the wreck. But deep-sea exploration rarely runs smoothly. Time is always lost for equipment repair and recalibration, bad weather and other unforeseeable delays. It seemed most likely that the Petrel might have no more than a dozen attempts to find the Wasp. As in a game of Battleship, Kraft had to call his shots with care.The Wasp’s navigator was a 38-year-old officer named Lt. Cmdr. John F. Greenslade. When lookouts spotted the Japanese torpedoes coming toward the Wasp, Greenslade was in the chart house, his maps spread before him. He heard the shout “Torpedoes on the starboard bow” and immediately went outside, where he watched as two of them disappeared out of sight and thundered into the Wasp’s flank, just forward of where he stood.The blast forced Greenslade back inside the chart house. His formerly tidy office had become “a shambles.” Greenslade gathered his maps and ran forward to the bridge, along with several other officers. Debris from explosions slammed against the windows and superstructure. Within minutes, Greenslade and his fellow officers evacuated the bridge — which by now was roasting hot — and moved to the back of the ship. They did so just in time. The bridge structure was soon “completely wrecked” by a huge explosion. Both the five-inch magazines and the thousand-pound bombs were housed directly underneath the central island. Evidently, one or both of these stores had detonated.What happened to Greenslade over the next few hours is difficult to piece together. In the account he later wrote for the official action report, he neglects to narrate what must have been a harrowing escape, noting only that he was rescued by the U.S.S. Lansdowne. But Sherman, the commanding officer on the Wasp, mentions Greenslade as having helped wounded and helpless men into life rafts before abandoning ship. From the reports, it can be assumed that — like many other senior officers on the Wasp, including Sherman — Greenslade swam. (In fact, as I later discovered from Greenslade’s grandson, the navigator spent several hours in the ocean without a life preserver, having given his own to a fellow sailor who was not a strong swimmer.) When Greenslade was rescued by the Lansdowne, he watched as its commanding officer scuttled the Wasp. Evidently, Greenslade had stowed his charts somewhere waterproof; his final report offers startlingly precise coordinates for the ship’s position as it sank.On board the Petrel, during the first afternoon of the mission, Kraft agonized over how much to trust Greenslade’s positions. He needed a sounding board. The deputy leader of A.T.U. was a wry 50-year-old Californian named Paul Mayer, bald except for a fringe of gray hair, who was known to his colleagues as “Pops.” Mayer has a background in commercial diving and submersibles, but he has also become A.T.U.’s historical researcher. When on dry land, he spends weeks in the National Archives in College Park, Md., pulling naval records to pinpoint the most likely place a potential “target” sank. Mayer then plots the various positions noted in the official records onto a Google Earth map. On the Petrel, Mayer and Kraft scour the data and original documents in meetings known by both men as Speculation Club.As the Petrel sailed eastward from Honiara, along a stretch known as Iron Bottom Sound for the concentration of World War II shipwrecks in its relatively shallow waters, Speculation Club convened in Kraft’s windowless office on the second deck. Kraft and Mayer discussed the Wasp’s complicated final movements. When it was hit, at around 1445, the Wasp was traveling southeast. It was then abandoned between 1520 and 1600. From that point on, the Wasp became what is known as a “dead ship,” floating without power. Speculation Club believed that the current pushed the moribund Wasp west and northwest, at a speed of just over one knot, for around four hours. Then came the Lansdowne’s scuttling torpedoes, after which the Wasp finally sank.(Mayer and Kraft worked on the supposition that ships sink straight down, with little variation for current. After I left the Petrel, I asked a lecturer in ship technology at Britannia Royal Naval College about this question. He told me that — in deep water, at least — a “vessel could behave like an aerofoil,” especially when picking up speed, and might move a significant distance off the vertical when sinking. But he also said the process was “complex, dynamic and based on so many unknown factors,” including air pockets, buoyancy and the asymmetrical nature of the damage that caused the ship to sink. In other words, even if you knew that ships tracked away from the point of sinking while underwater, it wouldn’t change much about how you looked for a wreck.)Besides Greenslade’s reckoning, several nearby American ships gave estimates of the Wasp’s final position at 2100. These data points spanned around 25 miles. The question was: whom to trust? Kraft was skeptical about how much credence to give Greenslade’s reckoning, not least because the Lansdowne’s own navigator had marked his map 17 miles south of the spot Greenslade noted. “You’d think,” Kraft said, “birds of a feather, he’d at least go chat to the navigator on the Lansdowne.”There were often long periods of silence at Speculation Club. This was one such time. Both men sat with their feet up on desks, hands cradled, trying to imagine the mind-set of a World War II navigator who, in one afternoon and evening, had watched friends die, seen his ship destroyed, swum with sharks and still found time to note down the Wasp’s final longitude and latitude.Eventually, Mayer spoke. He was thinking about how many other data points seemed to roughly tally with Greenslade’s, and how the only outlier on the Google Earth map was the spot recorded by the Lansdowne’s navigator. “There’s no way she’s down there,” he said, tapping his finger on the spot, at the southern end of the map, where the Lansdowne’s navigator said the Wasp sank.“I’ve heard that from you before,” Kraft said. Both men laughed.The Petrel had invited a special guest for this mission: an amiable retired two-star admiral named Sam Cox, who now leads the Naval History and Heritage Command in Washington. Cox is interested in the cataloging and preservation of United States Navy wrecks, some of which — at least in shallower waters — are at risk of being damaged by bounty hunters, or raised by salvage firms, who chase value in large supplies of metal. (Cox told me that the wrecks of United States warships were the Navy’s “equivalent of the Arlington National Cemetery” and should be accorded similar respect.) But he was also a walking encyclopedia on naval history, and a distinct help in interpreting the original documents used by the Petrel to find lost ships.At one point during Speculation Club, Cox stopped by Kraft’s office, and Mayer asked him which position he trusted more: Wasp’s or Lansdowne’s.“Oh, I think I’d trust the navigator on a carrier over a navigator on a destroyer,” Cox said. “More experience.”Soon after, the decision was made. Kraft put a yellow pin where he wanted the A.U.V. to begin its first mission, near Greenslade’s spot. The Petrel was just out of sight of land, and still more than a day’s sailing away from the yellow icon on the Google Earth map.At a little after 10 p.m. on Jan. 3, we were on site and the A.U.V. was primed for its first mission. The Petrel rolled in a three-meter swell. The ocean was inky and purplish here. Pink squid jumped near the surface in the light the ship cast into the water. Giant tuna swam off the stern.Kraft watched on the aft deck as the fat yellow drone was rolled out of its hangar on a cradle. A white light blinked on its fin. One of the A.T.U. team — a jovial, shaven-headed Englishman named Scott Matthews — operated a crane fixed to the port side of the deck, which lifted the vehicle up and into the water. The A.U.V. is designed to be slightly buoyant. In order to save battery life, a weight is affixed to its nose so that it dives. At a preprogrammed depth, in this case 4,000 meters, the A.U.V. is instructed to detach the weight, at which point it engages its propeller and spirals the remaining couple hundred meters to the bottom. If the vehicle “aborts” for any reason, a not-uncommon occurrence, it also detaches its weight and rises to the surface.The team peered over the port side as the yellow drone dived beneath the ship, its blinking light growing fainter, then disappearing. I’d been reading Sherman’s report of the Wasp’s sinking that day. (“Three torpedoes were sighted close aboard approaching,” the captain wrote. “Almost immediately the ship received three hits.”) Watching the A.U.V. barrel underneath the hull of the Petrel, I couldn’t help but perceive a plangent echo of events 76 years ago in this very patch of ocean.The crew, however, had more pressing concerns. In the “online” room — the nerve center of A.T.U.’s operations, which was furnished with three dozen screens — a monitor tracking the A.U.V. showed that the vehicle had aborted, dropped its weight and was returning to the surface. The reasons it does so are sometimes never fully understood, even by the most experienced A.T.U. members. It was accepted that any number of factors — including an obstacle sensed by the A.U.V.’s forward-facing sonar, a loss of battery or a programming malfunction — could cause the drone to abort. One member of A.T.U. told me not to try to understand, because “it’s all witchcraft.” He added: “Send stuff down to 4,000, 5,000 meters a few times, and stuff’s going to go wrong.”A two-man team was dispatched in a Zodiac inflatable to fetch the recalcitrant drone where it bobbed, flashing at the surface, more than 100 yards away from the Petrel, in an increasingly swollen sea: a risky operation, especially at night. Once the A.U.V. had been affixed to the Zodiac by carabiner and then towed back to the Petrel, hauled on board and reprogrammed, it was sent down again, at a little before 11 p.m. This time it appeared to dive. I went to bed. I woke up a few hours later to the news that the A.U.V. had aborted at midnight. The crew worked all night to reprogram her.Kraft now faced another tough decision. The weather was worsening, and the swell had risen to a maximum of five meters. That’s a big sea. In my cabin on the sixth deck, I felt as if I might be pitched clean out of my bunk. Kraft could easily send the A.U.V. down in this weather, but retrieving it with the Zodiac might put his crew — and the drone — at risk. Kraft made the call: All operations were delayed until the ocean flattened out.That didn’t happen until more than a day later, an hour or so after breakfast on Jan. 5, when the A.U.V. was sent down again. At that point the Petrel was about 300 nautical miles southeast of Honiara. We hadn’t seen another ship in two days. When the Zodiac was dispatched to retrieve the surfaced A.U.V., it was 1:30 the next morning. The humidity was stifling. Seabirds flew over the Petrel, fish thronged the water and two or three oceanic whitetip sharks circled near the Zodiac.The drone was returned to its cradle on deck, a wire plugged into its side and its data retrieved — a process that took around 25 minutes. The team convened in the online room to watch as the results of the dive came in. Eric Brager — a bearish, dryly comic A.U.V. expert from New York — had explained what I would be looking at when I saw the sonar data visualized on screen. It would be rows of what looked like a mown Kansas wheat field. If the seabed were perfectly flat, the sonar image would be featureless. If there were rocky hills or obstructions, you’d see a shadow — known as a holiday — behind the outcrop. What the crew was looking for were items inexplicable by geology. In the case of a debris field, the anomalies would look like a collection of shiny flecks. In the case of a whole, preserved shipwreck, the sonar would show what looked like a toy ship, dropped in a sandbox.Kraft peered at the screens as the results came in. Mostly, the sonar image showed a flat, uninterrupted desert. But, scrolling through one line of data, something caught Kraft’s eye in the southeast portion of the image: shiny flecks.“Hello, [expletive] Dolly!” he said, rising slightly from his chair. “That’s debris.”In the next few minutes, the team would identify two distinct patches of debris, a few hundred yards apart from each other. It was 2 a.m. Kraft seemed as excited as a puppy. (“That’s a wreck,” he said at one point, before walking the comment back.) Certainly, the debris looked like a promising clue. The biggest patch was within three miles of where Greenslade, the Wasp’s navigator, said the ship went down. Kraft asked his team to run a new search, south of where the debris fields had been located. It seemed very likely, he thought, that the Wasp itself would be there, right at the end of the debris trail.When the A.U.V. was pulled out of the water after its next mission, at around 2:30 p.m., the online room filled. Mayer and Kraft hovered by the screens. There was always an air of anticipation when the sonar data came in. Mayer told me that the moment was like opening your gifts on Christmas morning: “You’re waiting to unwrap your presents and see if you got socks or something you really wanted.”It was socks. The A.U.V. found a little more debris in the new grid, but no ship. Mayer and Kraft spent a while thinking about where to go next. They had used two of their Battleship shots.This was the first mission since Paul Allen’s death, and the crew felt his absence. On previous missions, Kraft emailed his billionaire boss at least once a day to update him. Allen did not give praise lightly. The highest honor Kraft could hope to receive from his boss was an email with two words, in caps: “VERY COOL.” But there was no uncertainty regarding how much Allen loved the Petrel. He liked to watch via a remote feed when his team dived with the R.O.V. at a new site. “There was never any doubt,” an A.T.U. member told me, half-joking. “We were in the entertainment business, with an audience of one.”In August 2017, when the Petrel’s R.O.V. dived to 5,500 meters on what the A.T.U. assumed to be the wreck of the Indianapolis, Allen watched the feed from a suite at CenturyLink Field, where the N.F.L. team he owned, the Seattle Seahawks, was beating the Minnesota Vikings in a preseason game. (The only other live feed was provided for Allen’s friend Steven Spielberg in Los Angeles, a distinctly postmodern arrangement: It had been Robert Shaw’s booze-addled speech about the hundreds of American sailors from the Indianapolis eaten by tiger sharks with “lifeless eyes,” in Spielberg’s “Jaws,” that helped to fix the story of the Indy in the American psyche as the quintessential naval nightmare.) According to those who knew Allen, finding a significant wreck lit him up like Times Square.The work of the Petrel was more than entertainment for Allen, however. His father fought in World War II, and he had become increasingly interested in the history of the conflict. The discoveries were a way, he said, to “honor all those who served our country.” Under the Sunken Military Craft Act, the wrecks of American warships on the bottom of the ocean are designated sovereign United States territory. Cox told me that the Navy’s Underwater Archaeology Branch maintains a database of all known and best-estimate locations of lost United States Navy craft. When a wreck is found, the precise location is added to that database but never made public — because the Navy has no interest in encouraging exploration on these sites. The Navy will, however, try to contact veterans’ and survivors’ groups associated with a ship, in order to break the news of the discovery to them.Two days passed. The crew ate mountains of food, three times a day. A few of them fished off the aft deck at shift’s end. Sometimes, but not often, they hit the “trim room” to exercise. The A.U.V. only completed one successful mission — west of the first grid — and came back with nothing but mown wheat fields. Another mission was aborted. Four shots gone. Speculation Club met more frequently, as Kraft and Mayer tried to understand the mistake in their theories. The Wasp was traveling southeast; it was hit by the Japanese torpedoes; it was abandoned; it floated with the current west-northwest; it was scuttled by the Lansdowne; it sank. But if all those things were true, then the A.U.V. should have found it already. What had they missed? It was a perpetual intrigue to Kraft and Mayer that facts faithfully recorded in deck logs and official reports could prove so misleading. After the last fruitless sonar search, Kraft was in the online room, with his eyes fixed on a monitor, when he said, to nobody in particular, “the elusive Wasp.” There was, I thought, some tenderness in it.Then came a setback. A crew member became ill, with severe abdominal pains. Nobody on board wanted to take any risks; the Petrel steamed back to Honiara, the nearest port, to seek medical help. The journey was 30 hours, one way. The importance of finding a shipwreck paled. Nevertheless, the prospects for the mission now looked bad. In the best-case scenario, in which the crew member was successfully and swiftly treated, we’d lose four days of the expedition. Four Battleship shots. It was only at the moment when the mission seemed bound to fail — at least, within the time I would be on board — that I realized how invested I had become in the Petrel’s finding the Wasp. It wasn’t only a sense of narrative closure I sought, although that was a part of it. I had by now read widely on the Wasp’s history, and was gripped by its stories and characters. There was David McCampbell, who survived the sinking by jumping into the water, and who subsequently became the most successful Navy fighter ace of the entire war. There was Benedict Semmes Jr., who later became a vice admiral; Semmes saw an eight-foot shark circling his group of survivors as they swam toward the U.S.S. Duncan but decided not to tell anybody, lest he cause a panic. (A wise decision: The shark left his group alone.) There was the indelible vision of the Wasp’s air officer, Michael Kernodle, who was in the water when he looked back at the carrier and realized that he could see all the way through the ship, from side to side.“What caused this large hole I do not know, but it must have been the result of a terrific explosion,” Kernodle later wrote.And then there was John Shea, and the letter to his son, which made my eyes brim every time I read it. The action reports on the sinking of the Wasp mention Shea in the most glowing terms. As assistant air officer, he would have been in a high part of the central island called the primary fly tower when the torpedoes hit, overseeing the takeoff and landing of the ship’s aircraft. As soon as the explosions started, Shea rushed down a ladder and toward the danger, grabbing firefighting gear as he went. The mains had been knocked out in the torpedo strikes, meaning there was no water pressure in the hoses; Shea did what he could with chemical retardants. He was last seen on the port walkway leading out another hose when an enormous explosion, in the account of one witness, blew steel plating 150 feet above the deck. “Some of the men were blown into the air,” the officer wrote, “and I did not see them again.”It wasn’t just Shea’s heroism that bit me. The more I learned about him, the more I was drawn in. Shea was a tall, lean, redheaded, soft-spoken Irish Catholic from Cambridge, Mass., and a career naval officer, with the body of an athlete but the reflective manner of a poet. At Boston College, where he was an outstanding undergraduate scholar, he had written verse, competed on the debating team and played varsity football. (A reporter on the Wasp wrote that his freckled nose was “dented from personal combat.”) After college, he waited years to marry his sweetheart, Elizabeth, because of some ill feeling between his family and hers. John and Elizabeth’s son, Jack, was an only child, and a late blessing.When the news reached home that Shea was missing, presumed dead, two of his four sisters, both Boston public-school teachers, remembered the letter their brother had sent to his son, and read it to their grade-school classes. The school system then decided to publish it in a pamphlet. Soon, the text became a national sensation. The “Dear Jackie letter” was reprinted in The Boston Globe, which called it “an inspiring memorial to American youth.” Life magazine followed, as did many other papers. Long before Shea was declared legally dead, on Sept. 16, 1943 — a year and a day after the Wasp was sunk — the story of the letter grew bigger than the story of the Wasp itself.Jack Shea died in 2015, at the age of 77, a father of three and a grandfather of nine, having enjoyed a happy career as a teacher of Latin and Greek at Boston College. Throughout his adult life, he oscillated between pride in his father’s legacy and unease about the strange and unbidden attention the Dear Jackie letter had brought him. From time to time, people would ask him about the letter, and he would answer their questions as politely as he could, before moving the conversation on. The tale of the Wasp, however, would never leave him alone. Especially toward the end of his life, Jack Shea often wondered exactly what had become of his father, and the aircraft carrier on which he served.I am the father of two young children — including a bookish 6-year-old boy who hid a handwritten note in my luggage, saying how much he would miss me while I was on the ship. (“Thanks ... for the note and card,” John Shea had told Jackie. “Write me very often and tell me everything.”) But I also felt a deeper connection to the Shea story. When I was 2, my own father, a pilot who spent much of his career in the British Navy, was killed in a helicopter accident. My father was 43 when he died. Shea was 44. It was hard for me to read the Dear Jackie letter, with all its vulnerability and old-fashioned man-to-boy wisdom, and not feel a flare of anguished kinship.I realized, of course, that the Wasp’s stories existed whether the wreck was found or not. But the physical artifact itself now seemed important, because it might allow these narratives to be reawakened. Anybody interested in the history of World War I infantry battles can tread the same Flanders and Picardy fields as the young men who fought in their millions there, and empathize with their experience. I have done so myself: There is no better recruiting sergeant for pacifism than a walking tour of the Western Front. But the surface of the ocean holds no landmarks. To understand or memorialize the sailors’ battle experience, you must dive deep.The sick crew member was treated swiftly: The pain, it turned out, was not a harbinger of a serious ailment. We returned to the search site as fast as the Petrel could motor — which was 12 knots, or about the speed of the fastest 10,000-meter runners. On Jan. 11, the A.U.V.’s data showed nothing but wheat fields. On Jan. 12, it came up empty again.On this second occasion, it was 5 a.m. when the drone was retrieved, and three sharks circled the Zodiac. A young A.T.U. member — a heavily bearded Englishman named Pat Travis — leaned out to clip the drone to the hook on the crane when a six-foot oceanic whitetip glided in between his boat and the A.U.V. Had Travis wanted to, he could have stroked the shark’s dorsal fin as it swam by. It was a genuinely hair-raising moment, but one quickly dismissed by the crew. They now had a technical problem to solve: The drone, they noticed, was letting in water.As the A.T.U. team fixed the problem, Kraft used the delay wisely. He chose to dive with the R.O.V. on the big debris fields they had found on the first grid, a week earlier. He was still hoping for more clues. Mayer teased him, saying the robot would find a sign saying “Wasp: 700 m this way.” Kraft had the grace to laugh.The remote submersible is a remarkable piece of equipment. The Petrel sends 4,500 volts and 10 amps of electricity down the umbilical cord to the R.O.V., as well as instructions that operate its thrusters. The mother ship receives crystalline images from the sub’s nine cameras. Through this technological devilry, two pilots, sitting in what look like gaming chairs in the online room, “fly” the R.O.V. to the bottom of the ocean, inspecting the abyssal surrounds as easily as if they were looking through the glass at the aquarium.When the pilots dived on the debris field, what they found was ghostly. On the bottom of the ocean, among mesh, iron railings and shell casings, were dozens of helmets. The find caused more head-scratching from Kraft and Mayer. It seemed quite unlikely that whatever they had found was evidence of one of the Wasp’s two major traumas: the Japanese strike or the American volley that scuttled the ship.“It doesn’t seem like a major event, but it is spread over a wide area, so whatever happened, it happened to a ship that was moving fast,” Kraft said.A new theory began to formulate in Kraft’s mind that wouldn’t reach full expression until he’d sent down the A.U.V. again and seen more lines of wheat fields: The debris they had found wasn’t from the Wasp. If he was right, every single data point they had on their map was wrong, by at least 10 miles. But Kraft could see no other possible explanation. His team had now run six search grids — around 150 square miles — and had come up empty. The exact coordinates recorded by a dozen United States navigators didn’t matter now. They were all, in Kraft’s opinion, worthless.Cox was more measured in his analysis. “It doesn’t give you a whole load of confidence in American open-ocean navigation,” he said, to a rueful smile from others in the online room.Kraft, however, was on the cusp of a breakthrough. If the coordinates were wrong, and the debris hadn’t in fact come from the Wasp, it was most likely to have been a result of torpedo strikes on two other ships in the convoy. The Japanese submarine had in fact fired six torpedoes in the volley that fatally wounded the Wasp. One passed the Wasp but went on to hit the U.S.S. O’Brien, compromising it so much that it sank a month later. Another struck the U.S.S. North Carolina, forcing it back to Pearl Harbor for repairs. Both were significant events, but not as traumatic as the attack on the Wasp. All that mattered to Kraft now was where the Wasp had been in relation to the O’Brien and the North Carolina. Mayer found a sketch, and Cox found a photograph. Each seemed to confirm that the Wasp had been southwest of the O’Brien and the North Carolina when it was hit.“Well if that’s true, then it pushes everything further south,” Kraft said.He eyed the map again. There was an empty, unsearched square in the southwest, at least 10 miles from any navigator’s estimate of where the Wasp went under. He tapped on it with his finger. “All the clues push me over here,” he said.Mayer was silent. He could see his friend was onto something, and he didn’t want to disturb his train of thought. The new theory made perfect sense of the nagging but inchoate feeling that Mayer had wrestled with ever since the A.U.V. found the first debris site and Kraft had momentarily declared victory: Speculation Club had been misinterpreting the clues the ocean floor was sending them. Indeed, even before Kraft sent the drone down again to scan the new grid, there was a general sense of intellectual accomplishment in the online room.When the A.U.V. re-emerged from the deep, it was around 3:30 a.m. on Jan. 14. I’d been away since the end of December. It was nearly time to catch a flight home. We were still more than a day’s sailing from the nearest airport. There might not be another chance for an A.U.V. mission after this one.The sonar information was spooled onto the screens of the online room. We all peered at the monitors. Sitting in the middle of the grid, unmistakably, was a toy ship dropped in a sandbox.“There she is,” Kraft said.Nobody spoke for what seemed like a while. Somebody in the room cried. Those seconds felt complicated, emotionally. The Petrel’s purpose is to find wrecks, and this moment was the purest distillation of that imperative, but there was no immediate celebration. Part of the sobriety was that the sound waves drawing the outline of the ship represented the lives of 194 people, whose stories — over the past days and weeks — we had come to know. In my mind at least, there was also a fleeting, thin and unexpected sliver of regret, which I still can’t fully explain: the pang of watching a hunter standing over a shot stag.Eventually, Kraft broke the quiet: “Nailed it,” he said.Hours later, the Petrel’s R.O.V. dived, lights blaring, on the Wasp. It was accompanied, until around 300 meters, by two of the sharks who now followed us wherever we went. The R.O.V. took more than an hour to descend to 4,200 meters, where the Wasp lay. It spent the next half-day or so inspecting the wreck from one end to the other, with only the occasional slow-moving deep-sea creature interrupting the view.The fire and explosions that had wounded the Wasp were evident everywhere. Whole sections of deck were missing. In one spot, forward of the central island, it looked as if the ship had been cleaved like a log. The bridge was marked with charred flame lines. The funnel had sheared off. But the cold, deep water and the lack of light had preserved the wreck remarkably well. My overriding impression was how small it seemed, for a carrier that had housed more than 2,000 sailors and dozens of airplanes. There had been so much life contained within that rusting hulk.Scattered around the wreck of the Wasp were airplanes: Dauntlesses, Wildcats and Avengers, in various states of destruction. Even before the Wasp sank, according to the captain’s report, the planes on both the flight and hangar decks were thrown high in the air by explosions and were badly damaged. A trip to the bottom of the ocean had not improved their condition. And then there was the ghostly sight of dozens of helmets lying in the silt.By the time we returned to Honiara days later, Cox’s colleagues in the Navy had been officially informed of the Wasp’s discovery, and her location noted. Otherwise, it was left alone. The process of contacting the families of men who had served on the ship began. I called the family of Commander Shea myself.Jack Shea married a woman named Claudette, with whom he had three children: John, Laura and Christine. Over the period of about a week, I spoke to all four of Jack Shea’s immediate family to tell them about the Wasp. It was strange news to deliver. The facts about their grandfather were not changed by the discovery, and yet something had changed. They were all thrilled that a crew had taken the time and effort to locate the ship. Laura, a social worker, reacted to the news “surprisingly emotionally”; John, a network engineer, was happy there was new information to bolster his understanding of the conflict in which his grandfather served; Claudette told me that her husband would have been “shocked, amazed — and sad, of course” to relive his childhood memories. The exact site of the Wasp, Claudette told me, was a puzzle that Jack always hoped would be solved.When I spoke to Christine, Commander Shea’s youngest grandchild — a teacher in a public school — she told me she felt some regret, because she knew how much the news would have meant to her father. But she also found the discovery thrilling, in part because it would mean that a new generation of people would have a chance to read her grandfather’s letter. In a polarized America, she told me, its values sang out.“There’s a strong sense of living a good life,” Christine said. “There’s nothing in that letter about making a lot of money.”Christine also told me about what Commander Shea’s example had meant to her father, whom she described as a humble man who did not crave the limelight that sometimes shined on him because of the letter. She said that Jack Shea had lived within the value system his father adumbrated in that short text, almost to the item. His had been, in every sense, a good life — albeit one touched by tragedy. In a strange way, the discovery of the Wasp had brought closure to this complicated episode in the Shea history. The whole family, she said, had believed that the Wasp’s last resting place would remain unknowable. Now, all these years later, the mystery had been put to rest.“To not be missing forever,” Christine said. “That seems important.”Several days after I spoke to the family about the discovery of the Wasp, Jack Shea’s widow, Claudette, wrote me an email. She told me that the news had encouraged her to revisit the Shea family history. She found herself researching her husband’s papers. There, she discovered a note written by John Shea as a boy. The text was undated, but the childish scrawl suggested it would have been written in the earliest years of the 20th century, when Teddy Roosevelt was president, nobody had yet driven a Ford Model T and an aircraft carrier was a distant, futuristic instrument of war.“When I am a man I am going to be a soldier because I like to fight for my country,” it read. “I like to march and ride on horse back and go on ships.”Ed Caesar is a writer in Manchester, England, and the author of “Two Hours: The Quest to Run the Impossible Marathon.”Advertisement